A' are guid lasses, but where do a' the ill wives come frae?
A' are no freens that speak us fair.
A aucun les biens viennent en dormant
Ab abusu ad usum non valet consequentia
Ab actu ad posse valet illatio
A bad beginning has a bad, or makes a worse, ending.
A bad dog never sees the wolf.
A bad thing is dear at any price.
Ab alio expectes, alteri quod feceris
A barren sow was never good to pigs.
A bas
A beast that wants discourse of reason.
A beau is everything of a woman but the sex, and nothing of a man beside it.
A beau jeu beau retour
A beautiful form is better than a beautiful
face, and a beautiful behaviour than a beautiful form.
A beautiful object doth so much attract the sight of all men, that it is in no man's power not to be pleased with it.
A beautiful woman is the "hell" of the soul, the "purgatory" of the purse, and the "paradise" of the eyes.
A beggarly account of empty boxes.
A beggar's purse is always empty.
A belief in the Bible, the fruit of deep meditation,
has served me as the guide of my moral and literary life. I have found it a capital safely invested, and richly productive of interest.
Abends wird der Faule fleissig
A beneficent person is like a fountain watering the earth and spreading fertility.
Aberrare a scopo
Abeunt studia in mores
Ab extra
Abgründe liegen im Gemüthe, die tiefer als die Hölle sind
Ab honesto virum bonum nihil deterret
A big head and little wit.
Ab igne ignem
Abiit, excessit, evasit, erupit
Ability to discern that what is true is true, and that what is false is false, is the characteristic of intelligence.
Ab incunabilis
Ab initio
Ab inopia ad virtutem obsepta est via
Ab intra
Ab irato
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A bis et à blanc
A bitter and perplex'd "What shall I do?" is worse to man than worst necessity.
A black hen will lay a white egg.
A blind man should not judge of colours.
A blockhead can find more faults than a wise man can mend.
A blue-stocking despises her duties as a woman, and always begins by making herself a man.
Abnormis sapiens
A bon chat bon rat
A bon chien il ne vient jamais un bon os
A bon droit
A bon marché
A book may be as great a thing as a battle.
A book should be luminous, but not voluminous.
Ab origine
About Jesus we must believe no one but himself.
Above all Greek, above all Roman fame.
Above all things reverence thyself.
Above the cloud with its shadow is the star with its light.
Ab ovo
Ab ovo usque ad mala
A bras ouverts
A brave man is clear in his discourse, and keeps close to truth.
A brave spirit struggling with adversity is a spectacle for the gods.
A breath can make them, as a breath has made.
Abrégé
Absence lessens weak, and intensifies violent, passions, as wind extinguishes a taper and lights up a fire.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Absence of occupation is not rest; / A mind quite vacant is a mind distress'd.
Absens hæres non erit
Absent in body, but present in spirit.
Absit invidia
Absit omen
Absolute fiends are as rare as angels, perhaps rarer.
Absolute freedom is inhuman.
Absolute individualism is an absurdity.
Absolute nothing is the aggregate of all the contradictions of the world.
Absque argento omnia vana
Abstineto a fabis
Absurdum est ut alios regat, qui seipsum regere nescit
Abundat dulcibus vitiis
Ab uno ad omnes
Ab uno disce omnes
Ab urbe condita
A bureaucracy always tends to become a pedantocracy.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Abusus non tollit usum
Academical years ought by rights to give occupation to the whole mind. It is this time which, well or ill employed, affects a man's whole after-life.
A cader va chi troppo in alto sale
A capite ad calcem
A careless master makes a negligent servant.
A carper will cavil at anything.
A carrion kite will never make a good hawk.
"A cat may look at a king," but can it
A causa perduta parole assai
Accasca in un punto quel che non accasca in
cento anni
Accedas ad curiam
Accensa domo proximi, tua quoque periclitatur
Accent is the soul of speech; it gives it feeling and truth.
Acceptissima semper / Munera sunt, auctor quæ pretiosa facit
Accident ever varies; substance can never
suffer change or decay.
Accidents rule men, not men accidents.
Accipe nunc, victus tenuis quid quantaque secum afferat. In primis valeas bene
Accipere quam facere præstat injuriam
Acclinis falsis animus meliora recusat
Accusare nemo se debet nisi coram Deo
Accuse not Nature; she hath done her part; / Do thou thine.
Acer et vehemens bonus orator
Acerrima proximorum odia
Acerrimus ex omnibus nostris sensibus est sensus videndi
A certain degree of soul is indispensable to
save us the expense of salt.
A certain tendency to insanity has always attended the opening of the religious sense in men, as if they had been "blasted with excess of light."
A chacun selon sa capacité, à chaque capacité selon ses œuvres
A chacun son fardeau pèse
A change came o'er the spirit of my dream.
A chaque fou plaît sa marotte
A character is a completely-fashioned will.
Ach! aus dem Glück entwickelt sich Schmerz
A cheerful life is what the Muses love; / A soaring spirit is their prime delight.
Acheruntis pabulum
Ach! es geschehen keine Wunder mehr
A child is a Cupid become visible.
A child may have too much of its mother's blessing.
A chill air surrounds those who are down in
the world.
A chip of the old block.
A Christian is God Almighty's gentleman.
Ach! unsre Thaten selbst, so gut als unsre Leiden / Sie hemmen unsers Lebens Gang
Ach! vielleicht indem wir hoffen / Hat uns Unheil getroffen
Ach wie glücklich sind die Todten!
Ach! zu des Geistes Flügeln, wird so leicht kein körperlicher Flügel sich gesellen
A circulating library in a town is an ever-green tree of diabolical knowledge.
A circumnavigator of the globe is less influenced by all the nations he has seen than by his nurse.
A clear conscience is a sure card.
A cock aye craws crousest (boldest) on his ain
midden-head.
A cœur ouvert
A cœur vaillant rien d'impossible
A cold hand, a warm heart.
A combination, and a form, indeed / Where every god did seem to set his seal / To give the world assurance of a man.
A' complain o' want o' siller; nane o' want o'
sense.
A compte
A confesseurs, médecins, avocats, la vérité ne cèle de ton cas
A conscience without God is a tribunal without a judge.
A consistent man believes in destiny, a capricious man in chance.
A constant fidelity in small things is a great
and heroic virtue.
A constant friend is a thing hard and rare to find.
A contre cœur
A corps perdu
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
A courage to endure and to obey.
A couvert
Acqua lontana non spegne fuoco vicino
A crafty knave needs no broker.
A craw's nae whiter for being washed.
A creation of importance can be produced only
when its author isolates himself; it is ever a child of solitude.
Acribus initiis, incurioso fine
A critic should be a pair of snuffers. He is often an extinguisher, and not seldom a thief.
A crowd is not company.
A crown / Golden in show, is but a wreath of thorns.
A crown is no cure for the headache.
A cruce salus
A cruel story runs on wheels, and every hand oils the wheels as they run.
A crust of bread and liberty.
Acta exteriora indicant interiora secreta
Act always so that the immediate motive of
thy will may become a universal rule for all intelligent beings.
Acti labores jucundi
Action can be understood and again represented by the spirit alone.
Action is but coarsened thought.
Action is the right outlet of emotion.
Actions speak louder than words.
Actis ævum implet, non segnibus annis
Activity is the presence, and character the record, of function.
Actum est de republicâ
Actum ne agas
Actus Dei nemini facit injuriam
Actus legis nulli facit injuriam
Actus me invito factus, non est meus actus
Actus non facit reum, nisi mens sit rea
Act well your part; there all the honour lies.
A cuspide corona
A custom / More honoured in the breach than the observance.
Adam muss eine Eve haben, die er zeiht was er gethan
Ad amussim
A danger foreseen is half avoided.
Adaptiveness is the peculiarity of human
nature.
Ad aperturam
Ad arbitrium
Ad astra per ardua
A Daniel come to judgment.
Ad avizandum
A day may sink or save a realm.
A day of grace
A day wasted on others is not wasted on one's self.
Ad calamitatem quilibet rumor valet
Ad captandum vulgus
Addere legi justitiam decus
A death-bed repentance seldom reaches to restitution.
A deep meaning resides in old customs.
A democracy is a state in which the government rests directly with the majority of the citizens.
A Deo et rege
Adeo in teneris consuescere multum est
Ad eundem
Ad extremum
Ad finem
Ad Græcas kalendas
Ad gustum
Adhibenda est in jocando moderatio
Ad hoc
Ad hominem
Adhuc sub judice lis est
Adhuc tua messis in herba est
A die
Adieu la voiture, adieu la boutique
Adieu, paniers! vendanges sont faites
Ad infinitum
Ad interim
Ad internecionem
A Dio spiacente ed a' nemici sui
A Dios rogando y con el mazo dando
A discrétion
Ad libitum
Ad majorem Dei gloriam
Ad mala quisque animum referat sua
Admiration praises; love is dumb.
Ad modum
Ad nauseam
Ad ogni santo la sua torcia
Ad ogni nocello suo nido è bello
Ad ognuno par più grave la croce sua
A dog's life
A dog winna yowl if you fell him wi' a bane.
Adolescentem verecundum esse decet
Ad omnem libidinem projectus homo
Adó sacan y non pon, presto llegan al hondon
Ad patres
A downright contradiction is equally mysterious
to wise men as to fools.
Ad perditam securim manubrium adjicere
Ad perniciem solet agi sinceritas
Ad pœnitendum properat, cito qui judicat
Ad populum phaleras, ego te intus et in cute novi
Ad quæstionem legis respondent judices, ad
quæstionem facti respondent juratores
Ad quod damnum
Ad referendum
Ad rem
A droit
A drop of honey catches more flies than a
hogshead of vinegar.
A drop of water has all the properties of water, but it cannot exhibit a storm.
A drowning man will catch at a straw.
Adscriptus glebæ
Adsit regula, peccatis quæ pœnas irroget æquas
Adstrictus necessitate
Ad summum
Ad tristem partem strenua est suspicio
Ad unguem
Ad unum omnes
A dur âne dur aiguillon
Ad utrumque paratus
Ad valorem
Advantage is a better soldier than rashness.
Adversa virtute repello
Adversity is a great schoolmistress, as many
a poor fellow knows that has whimpered over his lesson before her awful chair.
Adversity's sweet milk--philosophy.
Adversus solem ne loquitor
Ad vitam aut culpam
Ad vivum
A dwarf sees farther than the giant when he
has the giant's shoulders to mount on.
Ægis fortissima virtus
Ægrescit medendo
Ægri somnia vana
Ægroto, dum anima est, spes est
Ae half o' the world doesna ken how the ither
half lives.
Ae man may tak' a horse to the water, but twenty winna gar (make) him drink.
Ae man's meat is anither man's poison.
Æmulatio æmulationem parit
Æmulus atque imitator studiorum ac laborum
Aendern und bessern sind zwei
Æquabiliter et diligenter
Æquâ lege necessitas / Sortitur insignes et imos
Æquam memento rebus in arduis / Servare mentem, non secus in bonis / Ab insolenti temperatam / Lætitiâ
Æquam servare mentem
Æquanimiter
Æqua tellus / Pauperi recluditur / Regumque pueris
Æquo animo
Æquum est / Peccatis veniam poscentem reddere rursus
Ære perennius
Ærugo animi, rubigo ingenii
Æs debitorem leve, gravius inimicum facit
Ætatem non tegunt tempora
Æternum inter se discordant
Ævo rarissima nostro simplicitas
A fact is a great thing: a sentence printed,
if not by God, then at least by the Devil.
A fact in our lives is valuable, not so far as it is true, but as it is significant.
A facto ad jus non datur consequentia
"A fair day's wages for a fair day's work," is as just a demand as governed men ever made of governing; yet in what corner of this planet was that ever realised?
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
A faithful friend is a true image of the Deity.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
A favour does not consist in the service done, but in the spirit of the man who confers it.
A fellow-feeling makes one wondrous kind.
A fellow who speculates is like an animal on a barren heath, driven round and round by an evil spirit, while there extends on all sides of him a beautiful green meadow-pasture.
"A few strong instincts and a few plain rules"
suffice us.
Affaire d'amour
Affaire d'honneur
Affaire du cœur
Affairs that depend on many rarely succeed.
Affection lights a brighter flame / Than ever
blazed by art.
Affirmatim
Afflavit Deus et dissipantur
Afflictions are blessings in disguise.
A fiery soul, which, working out its way / Fretted the pigmy body to decay.
A fin
A fine quotation is a diamond on the finger of a man of wit, and a pebble in the hand of a fool.
A fixed idea ends in madness or heroism.
A flute lay side by side with Frederick the Great's baton of command.
A fly is as untamable as a hyena.
A fog cannot be dispelled with a fan.
A fond
A fonte puro pura defluit aqua
A fortiori
A fool always accuses other people; a partially wise man, himself; a wholly wise man, neither himself nor others.
A fool always finds a greater fool to admire
him.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A fool flatters himself, a wise man flatters the fool.
A fool is often as dangerous to deal with as a knave, and always more incorrigible.
A fool is wise in his own conceit.
A fool knows more in his own house than a
wise man in another's.
A fool may give a wise man counsel.
A fool may make money, but it takes a wise man to spend it.
A fool may sometimes have talent, but he never has judgment.
A fool may speer
A fool resents good counsel, but a wise man
lays it to heart.
A fool's bolt is soon shot.
A fool's bolt may sometimes hit the mark.
A fool when he is silent is counted wise.
A fool who has a flash of wit creates astonishment and scandal, like a hack-horse setting out to gallop.
A fop is the mercer's friend, the tailor's fool, and his own foe.
A force de mal aller tout ira bien
A force de peindre le diable sur les murs, il finit par apparaître en personne
A friend in court makes the process short.
A friend is a person with whom I may be sincere.
A friend is never known till needed.
A friend loveth at all times.
A friend may well be reckoned the masterpiece of Nature.
A friend's eye is a good looking-glass.
A friendship will be young at the end of a century, a passion old at the end of three months.
A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody.
A fronte præcipitium, a tergo lupus
After dinner rest awhile; after supper walk a mile.
After life's fitful fever he sleeps well.
After meat mustard
After the spirit of discernment, the next rarest things in the world are diamonds and pearls.
After-wit is everybody's wit.
A full cup is hard to carry.
A ganging fit (foot) is aye getting.
A gauche
Age does not make us childish, as people say; it only finds us still true children.
Age is a matter of feeling, not of years.
Age without cheerfulness is a Lapland winter without a sun.
A genius is one who is endowed with an excess
of nervous energy and sensibility.
Agent de change
A gentleman makes no noise; a lady is serene.
A gentleman's first characteristic is fineness of nature.
A gentleman that will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month.
Age quod agis
Agere considerate pluris est quam cogitare prudenter
Agiotage
A giving hand, though foul, shall have fair praise.
Agnosco veteris vestigia flammæ
A God all mercy is a God unjust.
A God speaks softly in our breast; softly, yet distinctly, shows us what to hold by and what to shun.
A gold key opens every door.
A good bargain is a pick-purse.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
A good book is the precious life-blood of a
master-spirit, embalmed and treasured up on purpose to a life beyond life.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
A good horse should be seldom spurred.
A good inclination is only the first rude draught of virtue, but the finishing strokes are from the will.
A good king is a public servant.
A good laugh is sunshine in a house.
A good law is one that holds, whether you recognise it or not; a bad law is one that cannot, however much you ordain it.
A good man in his dark striving is, I should say, conscious of the right way.
A good man shall be satisfied from himself.
A good marksman may miss.
A good name is sooner lost than won.
A good presence is a letter of recommendation.
A good reader is nearly as rare as a good writer.
A good rider on a good horse is as much above himself and others as the world can make him.
A good road and a wise traveller are two different things.
A good solid bit of work lasts.
A good surgeon must have an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
A good thought is a great boon.
A good wife and health are a man's best wealth.
A gorge déployée
A government for protecting business and
bread only is but a carcase, and soon falls by its own corruption to decay.
A government may not waver; once it has chosen its course, it must, without looking to right or left, thenceforth go forward.
A grands frais
A grave and a majestic exterior is the palace of the soul.
A great anguish may do the work of years, and we may come out from that baptism of fire with a soul full of new awe and new pity.
A great deal may and must be done which we
dare not acknowledge in words.
A great genius takes shape by contact with another great genius, but less by assimilation than by friction.
A great licentiousness treads on the heels of a reformation.
A great man is he who can call together the most select company when it pleases him.
A great man is one who affects the mind of his generation.
A great man living for high ends is the
divinest thing that can be seen on earth.
A great man quotes bravely, and will not draw on his invention when his memory serves him with a word as good.
A great master always appropriates what is good in his predecessors, and it is this which makes him great.
A great observer, and he looks / Quite through the deeds of men.
A great reputation is a great noise; the more there is made, the farther off it is heard.
A great revolution is never the fault of the
people, but of the government.
A great scholar is seldom a great philosopher.
A great spirit errs as well as a little one, the former because it knows no bounds, the latter because it confounds its own horizon with that of the universe.
A great thing can only be done by a great man, and he does it without effort.
A great thing is a great book, but greater than all is the talk of a great man.
A great writer does not reveal himself here
and there, but everywhere.
Agree, for the law is costly.
A green winter makes a fat churchyard.
A grey eye is a sly eye; a brown one indicates a roguish humour; a blue eye expresses fidelity; while the sparkling of a dark eye is, like the ways of Providence, always a riddle.
A growing youth has a wolf in his belly.
Agues come on horseback and go away on
foot.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A hair of the dog that bit him.
A haute voix
A heart to resolve, a head to contrive, and a hand to execute.
A hedge between, keeps friendship green.
Ah! il n'y a plus d'enfants
Ah me! for aught that ever I could read ... / The course of true love never did run smooth.
Ah me! how sweet this world is to the dying!
A hook's well lost to catch a salmon.
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse.
Ah! pour être dévot, je n'en suis pas moins homme
Ah! quam dulce est meminisse
Ah! that deceit should steal such gentle shapes / And with a virtuous visor hide deep vice.
A hundred years cannot repair a moment's loss of honour.
A hungry belly has no ears.
Ah! vitam perdidi operose nihil agendo
Aide-toi, et le ciel t'aidera
Ainsi que son esprit, tout peuple a son langage
Air de fête
Air distingué
Airs of importance are the credentials of impotence.
Aisé à dire est difficile à faire
A jest loses its point when he who makes it
is the first to laugh.
A jest's prosperity lies in the ear / Of him that hears it, never in the tongue / Of him that makes it.
A Jove principium
A judge who cannot punish, associates himself in the end with the criminal.
A judicious
A king of shreds and patches.
A king's son is no nobler than his company.
A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
A l'abandon
A la belle étoile
A la bonne heure
A l'abri
A la chandelle la chèvre semble demoiselle
A la dérobée
A la fin saura-t-on qui a mangé le lard
A la française
A la lettre
A la mode
A l'amour satisfait tout son charme est ôté
A la portée de tout le monde
A la presse vont les fous
Alas! the devil's sooner raised than laid.
A last judgment is necessary, because fools flourish.
A last judgment is not for making bad men better, but for hindering them from oppressing the good.
A latere
A lazy man is necessarily a bad man; an
idle, is necessarily a demoralised population.
Albæ gallinæ filius
Album calculum addere
Al corral con ello
Alea belli
Alea jacta est
Alea judiciorum
A leaden sword in an ivory scabbard.
A learned man is a tank; a wise man is a spring.
Al enemigo, si vuelve la espalda, la puente de plata
Alere flammam
Ales volat propriis
Al fin se canta la Gloria
Al fresco
Aliam excute quercum
Alia res sceptrum, alia plectrum
A liar is always lavish of oaths.
A liar should have a good memory.
Alias
Alia tentanda via est
Alibi
A lie is like a snowball; the farther you roll it, the bigger it becomes.
A lie has no legs, but scandal has wings.
A lie which is half a truth is ever the blackest of lies.
Aliena negotia centum / Per caput, et circa saliunt latus
Aliena negotia curo / Excussus propriis
Aliena nobis, nostra plus aliis placent
Aliena opprobria sæpe / Absterrent vitiis
Aliena optimum frui insania
Aliena vitia in oculis habemus; a tergo nostra sunt
Alieni appetens, sui profusus
Alieni temporis flores
Alieno in loco haud stabile regnum est
Alieno more vivendum est mihi
Alienos agros irrigas tuis sitientibus
A lie should be trampled on and extinguished wherever found.
A lie which is all a lie may be met and fought with outright / But a lie which is part a truth is a harder matter to fight.
A life that is worth writing at all is worth
writing minutely.
A light heart lives long.
Alii sementem faciunt, alii metentem
Aliis lætus, sapiens sibi
A l'impossible nul n'est tenu
A l'improviste
Aliorum medicus, ipse ulceribus scates
Alio sub sole
Aliquando bonus dormitat Homerus
Aliquis non debet esse judex in propria causa
Alis volat propriis
A little body often harbours a great soul.
A little fire is quickly trodden out; / Which being suffered, rivers cannot quench.
A little is better than none.
A little learning is a dangerous thing / Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring.
A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.
A little more than kin, and less than kind.
A little neglect may breed great mischief.
A little philosophy inclineth a man's mind to atheism, but depth in philosophy bringeth men's minds about to religion.
A little spark maks muckle wark.
Alitur vitium vivitque tegendo
Aliud est celare, aliud tacere
Aliud et idem
Aliud legunt pueri, aliud viri, aliud senes
A living dog is better than a dead lion.
Alle anderen Dinge müssen; der Mensch ist
das Wesen, welches will
Alle Frachten lichten, sagte der Schiffer, da warf er seine Frau über Bord
Allegans contraria non est audiendus
Allen gehört, was du denkest; dein eigen ist nur, was du fühlest
Aller Anfang ist heiter; die Schwelle ist der Platz der Erwartung
Aller Anfang ist schwer, sprach der Dieb, und
stahl zuerst einen Amboss
Alle Schuld rächt sich auf Erden
Alles Gescheidte ist schon gedacht worden; man muss nur versuchen, es noch einmal zu denken
Alles Vergängliche ist nur ein Gleichniss
Alles wanket, wo der Glaube fehlt
Alles wäre gut, wär kein Aber dabei
Alles, was ist, ist vernünftig
Alles zu retten, muss alles gewagt werden
All advantages are attended with disadvantages.
All are but parts of one stupendous whole / Whose body Nature is, and God the soul.
All argument will vanish before one touch of Nature.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
All are not saints that go to church.
All are not soldiers that go to the wars.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
All art is great, and good, and true, only so far as it is distinctively the work of manhood in its entire and highest sense.
All balloons give up their gas in the pressure of things, and collapse in a sufficiently wretched manner erelong.
All battle is misunderstanding.
All beginnings are easy; it is the ulterior
steps that are of most difficult ascent and most rarely taken.
All cats are grey in the dark.
All censure of a man's self is oblique praise; it is in order to show how much he can spare.
All cruelty springs from weakness.
All death in nature is birth.
All deep joy has something of awful in it.
All delights are vain; but that most vain / Which, with pain purchas'd, doth inherit pain.
All destruction, by violent revolution or howsoever it be, is but new creation on a wider scale.
All disputation makes the mind deaf, and when people are deaf I am dumb.
All evil is as a nightmare; the instant you
begin to
All evils, when extreme, are the same.
All faults are properly shortcomings.
All faiths are to their own believers just / For none believe because they will, but must.
All feet tread not in one shoe.
All flesh consorteth according to its kind, and
a man will cleave to his like.
All forms of government are good, so far as the wise and kind in them govern the unwise and unkind.
All good colour is in some degree pensive, and the purest and most thoughtful minds are those which love colour the most.
All good government must begin at home.
All good has an end but the goodness of God.
All good things / Are ours, nor soul helps
flesh more now / Than flesh helps soul.
All good things go in threes.
All governments are to some extent a treaty with the Devil.
All great art is the expression of man's delight in God's work, not in his own.
All great discoveries are made by men whose feelings run ahead of their thinkings.
All great peoples are conservative.
All great song has been sincere song.
All healthy things are sweet-tempered.
All his geese are swans.
All history is an inarticulate Bible.
All immortal writers speak out of their hearts.
All imposture weakens confidence and chills benevolence.
All inmost things are melodious, naturally utter themselves in song.
All is but toys.
All is good that God sends us.
All is influence except ourselves.
All is not gold that glitters.
All is not lost that's in peril.
All live by seeming.
All living objects do by necessity form to themselves a skin.
Allmächtig ist doch das Gold; auch Mohren
kann's bleichen
All mankind love a lover.
All man's miseries go to prove his greatness.
All martyrdoms looked mean when they were suffered.
All measures of reformation are effective in proportion to their timeliness.
All men are bores except when we want them.
All men are born sincere and die deceivers.
All men are fools, and with every effort they differ only in the degree.
All men commend patience, though few be willing to practise it.
All men have their price.
All men honour love, because it looks up, and
not down.
All men, if they work not as in the great taskmaster's eye, will work wrong.
All men live by truth, and stand in need of expression.
All men may dare what has by man been done.
All men that are ruined are ruined on the side of their natural propensities.
All men think all men mortal but themselves.
All men would be masters of others, and no man is lord of himself.
All men who know not where to look for truth, save in the narrow well of self, will find their own image at the bottom and mistake it for what they are seeking.
All minds quote. Old and new make up the warp and woof of every moment.
All mischief comes from our inability to be alone.
All money is but a divisible title-deed.
All my possessions for a moment of time!
All nature is but art unknown to thee. / All chance, direction which thou canst not see. / All discord, harmony not understood; / All partial evil, universal good.
All nobility in its beginnings was somebody's natural superiority.
All objects are as windows through which the philosophic eye looks into infinitude.
All orators are dumb when beauty pleadeth.
All our evils are imaginary, except pain of body and remorse of conscience.
All our most honest striving prospers only in unconscious moments.
All passions exaggerate; and they are passions
only because they do exaggerate.
All pleasure must be bought at the price of pain.
All power appears only in transition.
All power, even the most despotic, rests ultimately on opinion.
All power of fancy over reason is a degree of insanity.
All promise outruns performance.
All public disorder proceeds from want of work.
All speech, even the commonest, has something of song in it.
All strength lies within, not without.
All strong men love life.
All strong souls are related.
All's well that ends well.
All talent, all intellect, is in the first place moral.
All that a man has he will give for right relations with his mates.
All that glisters is not gold; / Gilded tombs do worms infold.
All that is best in the great poets of all countries
is not what is national in them, but what is universal.
All that is human must retrograde, if it do not advance.
All that is noble is in itself of a quiet nature, and appears to sleep until it is aroused and summoned forth by contrast.
All that lives must die, / Passing through nature to eternity.
All that man does and brings to pass is the vesture of a thought.
All that mankind has done, thought, gained,
or been, it is all lying in magic preservation in the pages of books.
All that tread the globe are but a handful to the tribes that slumber in its bosom.
All the armed prophets have conquered, all the unarmed have perished.
All the arts affecting culture
have a certain common bond, and are connected by a certain blood relationship with each other.
All the difference between the wise man and the fool is, that the wise man keeps his counsel, and the fool reveals it.
All the diseases of mind, leading to fatalest
ruin, are due to the concentration of man upon himself, whether his heavenly interests or his worldly interests, matters not.
All the faults of the man I can pardon in the player; no fault of the player can I pardon in the man.
All the good of which humanity is capable is comprised in obedience.
All the great ages have been ages of belief.
All the keys don't hang at one man's girdle.
All the makers of dictionaries, all the compilers
of opinions already printed, we may term plagiarists, but honest plagiarists, who arrogate not the merit of invention.
All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand.
All the pursuits of men are the pursuits of women also, and in all of them a woman is only a weaker man.
All the thinking in the world does not bring us to thought; we must be right by nature, so that good thoughts may come.
All the wit in the world is not in one head.
All the wit in the world is thrown away upon
the man who has none.
All the world's a stage / And all the men and women merely players.
All things are double, one against another. Good is set against evil, and life against death.
All things are for the sake of the good, and it is the cause of everything beautiful.
All things are in perpetual flux and fleeting.
All things are symbolical, and what we call
results are beginnings.
All things happen by necessity; in Nature there is neither good nor bad.
All things that are / Are with more spirit chased than enjoyed.
All things that love the sun are out of doors.
All this (in the daily press) does not concern one in the least; one is neither the wiser nor the better for knowing what the day brings forth.
All true men are soldiers in the same army,
to do battle against the same enemy--the empire of darkness and wrong.
All truth is not to be told at all times.
All virtue is most rewarded, and all wickedness most punished, in itself.
All went as merry as a marriage-bell.
All, were it only a withered leaf, works together with all.
All will be as God wills.
All wise men are of the same religion, and
keep it to themselves.
All women are good
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
Allzugrosse Zartheit der Gefühle ist ein wahres Unglück
Allzustraff gespannt, zerspringt der Bogen
Allzuviel ist nicht genug
Alma mater
Al molino, ed alla sposa / Sempre manca qualche cosa
Almost all our sorrows spring out of our relations with other people.
Almsgiving never made any man poor.
A loan should come laughing home.
A l'œuvre on connaît l'artisan
A loisir
Alomban és szerelemben nincs lehetetlenséej
Along the cool sequester'd vale of life / They kept the noiseless tenor of their way.
A los bobos se les aperece la Madre de Dios
A lover's eyes will gaze an eagle blind.
Alte fert aquila
Altera manu fert lapidem, altera panem ostentat
Altera manu scabunt, altera feriunt
Alter ego
Alter idem
Alter ipse amicus
Alterius non sit qui suus esse potest
Alter remus aquas, alter mihi radat arenas
Alterum tantum
Although men are accused of not knowing their weakness, yet perhaps as few know their strength.
Although the last, not least.
Altissima quæque flumina minimo sono labuntur
Alt ist das Wort, doch bleibet hoch und wahr der Sinn
Altro diletto che' mparar, non provo
Always filling, never full.
Always have two strings to your bow.
Always strive for the whole; and if thou canst not become a whole thyself, connect thyself with a whole as a ministering member.
Always there is a black spot in our sunshine, the shadow of ourselves.
Always to distrust is an error, as well as always
to trust.
Always win fools first; they talk much, and what they have once uttered they will stick to.
Amabilis insania
A machine is not a man or a work of art; it is destructive of humanity and art.

A mad world, my masters.
A main armée
Ama l'amico tuo con il diffetto suo
A man at sixteen will prove a child at sixty.
A man belongs to his age and race, even when he acts against them.
A man, be the heavens praised, is sufficient
for himself; yet were ten men, united in love, capable of being and doing what ten thousand singly would fail in.
A man can be so changed by love as to be unrecognisable as the same person.
A man
A man can keep another's secret better than his own; a woman, her own better than another's.
A man canna wive and thrive the same year.
A man can never be too much on his guard
when he writes to the public, and never too easy towards those with whom he converses.
A man can receive nothing except it be given him from heaven.
A man cannot be in the seventeenth century and the nineteenth at one and the same moment.
A man cannot spin and reel at the same time.
A man cannot whistle and drink at the same time.
A man dishonoured is worse than dead.
A man does not represent a fraction, but a whole number; he is complete in himself.
A man hears only what he understands.
A man he was to all the country dear, / And passing rich with forty pounds a year.
A man in a farm and his thoughts away, is better out of it than in it.
A man in debt is so far a slave.
A man in the right, with God on his side, is in the majority, though he be alone.
A man is a fool or his own physician at forty.
A man is a golden impossibility.
A man is always nearest to his good when at home, and farthest from it when away.
A man is king in his own house.
A man is never happy till his vague striving has itself marked out its proper limitation.
A man is not born the second time, any more than the first, without travail.
A man is not as God, / But then most godlike being most a man.
A man is not strong who takes convulsion fits, though six men cannot hold him; only he that can walk under the heaviest weight without staggering.
A man is only a relative and a representative
nature.
A man is the façade of a temple wherein all wisdom and all good abide.
A man is the prisoner of his power.
A man lives by believing something; not by debating and arguing about many things.
A man may be proud of his house, and not ride on the rigging (ridge) of it.
A man may do what he likes with his own.
A man may smile, and smile, and be a villain.
A man may spit in his nieve and do little.
A man may survive distress, but not disgrace.
A man / More sinn'd against than sinning.
A man must ask his wife's leave to thrive.
A man must become wise at his own expense.
A man must be healthy before he can be holy.
A man must be well off who is irritated by trifles, for in misfortune trifles are not felt.
A man must carry knowledge with him if he would bring home knowledge.
A man must seek his happiness and inward
peace from objects which cannot be taken away from him.
A man must take himself for better, for worse, as his portion.
A man must thank his defects, and stand in some terror of his talents.

A man must wait for the right moment.
A man never feels the want of what it never
occurs to him to ask for.
A man never rises so high as when he knows not whither he is going.
A man of intellect without energy added to it is a failure.
A man of maxims only is like a Cyclops with one eye, and that eye in the back of his head.
A man of pleasure is a man of pains.
A man often pays dear for a small frugality.
A man of the world must seem to be what he wishes to be.
A man of wit would often be much embarrassed without the company of fools.
A man only understands what is akin to some things already in his mind.
A man places himself on a level with him whom he praises.
A man protesting against error is on the way
towards uniting himself with all men that believe in truth.
A man so various, that he seem'd to be, / Not one, but all mankind's epitome.
A man that is young in years may be old in hours, if he have lost no time.
A man used to vicissitudes is not easily dejected.
A man who cannot gird himself into harness will take no weight along these highways.
A man who claps his Pegasus into a harness,
and urges on his muse with the whip, will have to pay to Nature the penalty of this trespass.
A man who does not know rigour cannot pity either.
A man who feels that his religion is a slavery has not began to comprehend the real nature of it.
A man who has nothing to do is the devil's playfellow.
A man who is ignorant of foreign languages is ignorant of his own.
A man who reads much becomes arrogant and
pedantic; one who sees much becomes wise, sociable, and helpful.
A man will love or hate solitude--that is, his own society--according as he is himself worthy or worthless.
A man will not be observed in doing that which he can do best.
A man with half a volition goes backwards and forwards, and makes no way on the smoothest road.
A man with knowledge but without energy, is a house furnished but not inhabited; a man with energy but no knowledge, a house dwelt in but unfurnished.
A man's a man for a' that.
A man's aye crousest in his ain cause.
A man's best fortune or his worst is his wife.
A man's best things are nearest him, / Lie close about his feet.
A man's fate is his own temper.
A man's friends belong no more to him than
he to them.
A man's gift makes room for him.
A man's happiness consists infinitely more in admiration of the faculties of others than in confidence in his own.
A man's house is his castle.
A man's power is hooped in by a necessity, which, by many experiments, he touches on every side until he learns its arc.
A man's task is always light if his heart is
light.
A man's virtue is to be measured not by his extraordinary efforts, but his everyday conduct.
A man's walking is a succession of falls.
A man's wife is his blessing or his bane.
Amantes, amentes
Amantium iræ amoris redintegratio est
A man who cannot mind his own business is not to be trusted with the king's.
A ma puissance
Amare et sapere vix deo conceditur
Ambigendi locus
Ambiguas in vulgum spargere voces
Ambition is not a vice of little people.
Ambition is the germ from which all growth in nobleness proceeds.
Ambos oder Hammer
Ame damnée
Ame de boue
Amende honorable
A mensâ et thoro
A menteur, menteur à demi
Amentium, haud amantium
A merchant shall hardly keep himself from doing wrong.
A merciful man is merciful to his beast.
A mere madness to live like a wretch and die rich.
A merry heart doeth good like a medicine; but a broken spirit drieth the bones.
A merveille
Am Golde hängt doch Alles
Amici, diem perdidi
Amici probantur rebus adversis
Amici vitium ni feras, prodis tuum
Amico d'ognuno, amico di nessuno
Amicorum esse communia omnia
Amicum ita habeas posse ut fieri hunc inimicum scias
Amicum perdere est damnorum maximum
Amicus animæ dimidium
Amicus certus in re incerta cernitur
Amicus curiæ
Amicus est unus animus in duobus corporibus
Amicus humani generis
Amicus Plato, sed magis amica veritas
Amicus usque ad aras
A mighty maze! but not without a plan.
A millstone and a man's heart are kept constantly revolving; where they have nothing to grind, they grind and fray away their own substance.
A mirror is better than a whole gallery of ancestral portraits.
A miser is as furious about a halfpenny as the man of ambition about the conquest of a kingdom.
A miss is as good as a mile.
"Am I to be saved? or am I to be lost?" Certain to be lost, so long as you put that question.
Amittit famam qui se indignis comparat
Amittit merito proprium, qui alienum appetit
Am meisten Unkraut trägt der fettste Boden
A mob is a body voluntarily bereaving itself
of reason and traversing its work.
A modest confession of ignorance is the ripest and last attainment of philosophy.
A moment's insight is sometimes worth a life's experience.
A monarchy is apt to fall by tyranny; an aristocracy, by ambition; a democracy, by tumults.
Among nations the head has alway preceded the heart by centuries.
Among the blind the one-eyed is a king.
Amor al cor gentil ratto s' apprende.
Amor a nullo amato amar perdona
Amor bleibt ein Schalk, und wer ihm vertraut, ist betrogen
Amore è di sospetti fabro
Amore sitis uniti
Amor et melle et felle est fecundissimus
Amor et obœdientia
Amor gignit amorem
Amor omnibus idem
Amor patriæ
Amor proximi
Amor tutti eguaglia
Amoto quæramus seria ludo
Amour avec loyaulté
Amour fait moult, argent fait tout
Amour propre
A mouse never trusts its life to one hole only.
Amphora cœpit / Institui: currente rota cur urceus exit?
Ampliat ætatis spatium sibi vir bonus; hoc est / Vivere bis vitâ posse priore frui
Am Rhein, am Rhein, da wachsen uns're Reben
Am sausenden Webstuhl der Zeit
Amt ohne Geld macht Diebe
A mucho hablar, mucho errar
A multitude of sparks yields but a sorry light.
Anacharsis among the Scythians
An acre in Middlesex is better than a principality in Utopia.
An acre of performance is worth a whole world
of promise.
Analysis is not the business of the poet. His office is to portray, not to dissect.
Analysis kills spontaneity, just as grain, once it is ground into flour, no longer springs and germinates.
An ambassador is an honest man sent to lie abroad for the commonwealth.
An ambitious man is slave to everybody.
A name is no despicable matter. Napoleon,
for the sake of a great name, broke in pieces almost half a world.
An appeal to fear never finds an echo in German hearts.
An archer is known by his aim, not by his arrows.
An arc in the movement of a large intellect does not differ sensibly from a straight line.
An Argus at home, a mole abroad.
An army, like a serpent, goes on its belly.
A narrow faith has much more energy than an enlightened one.
An artist is a person who has submitted to a law which it is painful to obey, that he may bestow a delight which it is gracious to bestow.
An artist is only then truly praised by us when we forget him in his work.
An artist must have his measuring tools, not in the hand, but in the eye.
An artist should be fit for the best society, and
should keep out of it.
An ass may bray a good while before he shakes the stars down.
A nation which labours, and takes care of the fruits of labour, would be rich and happy, though there were no gold in the universe.
Anche il mar, che è si grande, si pacifica
Anch' io sono pittore
Anche la rana morderebbe se avesse denti
Ancient art corporealises the spiritual; modern spiritualises the corporeal.
Ancient art is plastic; modern, pictorial.
And better had they ne'er been born / Who read to doubt, or read to scorn.
And can eternity belong to me, / Poor pensioner
on the bounties of an hour?
And earthly power doth then show likest God's, / When mercy seasons justice.
And e'en his failings lean'd to virtue's side.
And found no end, in wand'ring mazes lost.
And he is oft the wisest man / Who is not wise at all.
"And is this all?" cried Cæsar at his height,
disgusted.
An dives sit omnes quærunt, nemo an bonus
And Mammon wins his way where seraphs might despair.
And much it grieved my heart to think / What man has made of man.
And, often times, excusing of a fault / Doth make the fault worse by the excuse.
And so, from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe, /
And then, from hour to hour, we rot and rot, / And thereby hangs a tale.
And still they gazed, and still the wonder grew, / That one small head could carry all he knew.
And this our life, exempt from public haunt, finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything.
A needle's eye is wide enough for two friends; the whole world is too narrow for two foes.
A nemico che fugge, fa un ponte d'oro
An empty purse fills the face with wrinkles.
An epigram often flashes light into regions where reason shines but dimly.
An error is the more dangerous in proportion to the degree of truth which it contains.
An evening red and morning grey, is a sure sign of a fair day.
A new broom sweeps clean.
A new life begins when a man once sees with his own eyes all that before he has but partially read or heard of.
A new principle is an inexhaustible source of new views.
An eye like Mars, to threaten or command.
Anfang heiss, Mittel lau, Ende kalt
Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
Angels come to visit us, and we only know them when they are gone.
Anger is like / A full-hot horse; who, being allow'd his way, / Self-mettle tires him.
Anger is one of the sinews of the soul.
Anger resteth in the bosom of fools.
Anger, when it is long in coming, is the stronger when it comes, and the longer kept.
Anglicè
Angling is somewhat like poetry; men are to be born so.
Anguis in herbâ
An honest citizen who maintains himself industriously has everywhere as much freedom as he wants.
An honest man's the noblest work of God.
An honest tale speeds best, being plainly told.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
An idler is a watch that wants both hands; /
As useless if it goes as if it stands.
An ill-willie (ill-natured) cow should have short horns.
An ill wind that blows nobody good.
An ill workman quarrels with his tools.
Animal implume bipes
Animals can enjoy, but only men can be cheerful.
Anima mundi
Animo ægrotanti medicus est oratio
Animo et fide
Animo, non astutia
Animum pictura pascit inani
Animum rege, qui nisi paret imperat
Animus æquus optimum est ærumnæ condimentum
Animus furandi
Animus homini, quicquid sibi imperat, obtinet
Animus hominis semper appetit agere aliquid
Animus non deficit æquus
Animus quod perdidit optat / Atque in præterita se totus imagine versat
An indifferent agreement is better than a good verdict.
An individual helps not; only he who unites with many at the proper time.
An individual man is a fruit which it cost all
the foregoing ages to form and ripen.
An infant crying in the night, / An infant crying for the light; / And with no language but a cry.
An infinitude of tenderness is the chief gift and inheritance of all truly great men.
An innocent man needs no eloquence; his innocence is instead of it.
An iron hand in a velvet glove.
An irreverent knowledge is no knowledge;
it may be a development of the logical or other handicraft faculty, but is no culture of the soul of a man.
An nescis longas regibus esse manus?
An nescis, quantilla prudentia mundus regatur
regatur
An nichts Geliebtes muszt du dein Gemüt / Also verpfänden, dass dich sein Verlust / Untröstbar machte
Anno domini
Anno mundi
Annus mirabilis
A noble heart will frankly capitulate to reason.
A noble man cannot be indebted for his culture to a narrow circle. The world and his native land must act on him.
An obstinate man does not hold opinions, but they hold him.
A nod for a wise man, and a rod for a fool.
An old bird is not to be caught with chaff.
An old knave is no babe.
An old man in a house is a good sign in a house.
An old warrior is never in haste to strike the blow.
An open confession is good for the soul.
An open door may tempt a saint.
Another such victory and we are done.
An ounce of a man's own wit is worth a pound of other peoples'.
An ounce of cheerfulness is worth a pound of sadness to serve God with.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of
wit.
An ounce o' mother-wit is worth a pound o' clergy.
An ounce of practice is worth a pound of preaching.
An quidquid stultius, quam quos singulos contemnas, eos aliquid putare esse universos?
Ante lucem
Ante meridiem
Ante omnia
Antequam incipias, consulto; et ubi consulueris, facto opus est
Ante senectutem curavi, ut bene viverem; in senectute, ut bene moriar
Ante tubam tremor occupat artus
Ante victoriam ne canas triumphum
Anticipation forward points the view.
Antiquâ homo virtute ac fide
Antiquitas sæculi juventus mundi
An unimaginative person can neither be reverent nor kind.
Anxiety is the poison of human life.
Any nobleness begins at once to refine a man's features; any meanness or sensuality to imbrute them.
Any port in a storm.
Any road will lead you to the end of the world.
Anything for a quiet life.
"A pack of kinless loons;"
Apage, Satana
A patron is one who looks with unconcern on a man struggling for life in the water, and when he has reached the land encumbers him with help.
A peck of March dust is worth a king's ransom.
A pedant is a precocious old man.
A penny hained (saved) is a penny gained.
Aperçu
A perfect woman, nobly planned, / To warn, to comfort, and command.
Aperit præcordia liber
A perte de vue
Aperte mala cum est mulier, tum demum est bona
Aperto vivere voto
A pet lamb makes a cross ram.
Aphorisms are portable wisdom.
Apio opus est
A pity that the eagle should be mew'd, / While kites and buzzards prey at liberty.
A place for everything, and everything in its place.
A plague of sighing and grief; it blows a man up like a bladder.
A plant often removed cannot thrive.
A pleasing figure is a perpetual letter of recommendation.
A plomb
A poem is the very image of life expressed in its eternal truth.
A poet is a nightingale, who sits in the darkness and sings to cheer its own solitude with sweet sounds.
A poet must be before his age, to be even with
posterity.
A poet must sing for his own people.
A poet on canvas is exactly the same species of creature as a poet in song.
A poison which acts not at once is not therefore a less dangerous poison.
A position of eminence makes a great man greater and a little man less.
Apothegms are, in history, the same as the
pearls in the sand or the gold in the mine.
A point
Apollo himself confessed it was ecstasy to be a man among men.
A posse ad esse
A posteriori
Apothecaries would not sugar their pills unless they were bitter.
A pound of care won't pay an ounce of debt.
Apparent rari nantes in gurgite vasto
Appetitus rationi pareat
Applause is the spur of noble minds, the aim
and end of weak ones.
Après la mort le médecin
Après la pluie, le beau temps
Après nous le déluge
A primrose by a river's brim / A yellow primrose was to him, / And it was nothing more.
A prince can mak' a belted knight, / A marquis,
duke, and a' that; / But an honest man's aboon his might, / Gude faith, he maunna fa' that.
A priori
A progress of society on the one hand, a decline of souls on the other.
A promise is a debt.
A propensity to hope and joy is real riches; one to fear and sorrow, real poverty.
A prophet is not without honour, save in his
own country, and in his own house.
A propos
A propos de bottes
A proverb is good sense brought to a point.
A proverb is much matter decocted into few words.
Apt alliteration's artful aid.
Apt to revolt, and willing to rebel, / And never are contented when they're well.
A puñadas entran las buenas hadas
A purpose you impart is no longer your own.
A quatre épingles
Aquel pierde venta que no tiene que venda
A quien tiene buena muger, ningun mal le puede venir, que no sea de sufrir
Aquilæ senectus
Aquila non capit muscas
A qui veut rien n'est impossible
A raconter ses maux, souvent on les soulage
A ragged colt may make a good horse.
Aranearum telas texere
Arbeit ist des Blutes Balsam: / Arbeit ist der Tugend Quell
Arbiter bibendi
Arbiter elegantiarum
Arbiter formæ
Arbitrary power is most easily established on the ruins of liberty abused to licentiousness.
Arbore dejecta qui vult ligna colligit
Arbores serit diligens agricola, quarum aspiciet baccam ipse nunquam
"Arcades ambo,"
Arcana imperii
Architecture is petrified music.
Architecture is the work of nations.
Ardeat ipsa licet, tormentis gaudet amantis
Ardentia verba
Arde verde por seco, y pagan justos por pecadores
Ardua molimur: sed nulla nisi ardua virtus
A really great talent finds its happiness in
execution.
A reasoning mule will neither lead nor drive.
A rebours
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
A reculons
A re decedunt
A refusal is less than nothing.
Arena sine calce
Arenæ mandas semina
A republic is properly a polity in which the state, with its all, is at every man's service; and every man, with his all, is at the state's service.
Ares, no ares, renta me pagues
A rez de chaussée
Argent comptant
Argent comptant porte medicine
Argentum accepi, dote imperium vendidi
Argilla quidvis imitaberis uda
Argument, as usually managed, is the worst sort of conversation; as it is generally in books the worst sort of reading.
Argument is like an arrow from a cross-bow, which has great force though shot by a child.
Argumentum ad crumenam
Argumentum ad hominem
Argumentum ad ignorantiam
Argumentum ad invidiam
Argumentum ad judicium
Argumentum ad misericordiam
Argumentum ad populum
Argumentum ad verecundiam
Argumentum baculinum
Argus at home, a mole abroad.
Argus-eyes
A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast, but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
Aristocracy has three successive ages--of superiorities, of privileges, and of vanities; having passed out of the first, it degenerates in the second, and dies away in the third.
Arma amens capio; nec sat rationis in armis
Arma cerealia
Arm am Beutel, krank am Herzen
Arma pacis fulcra
Arma tenenti omnia dat, qui justa negat
Arma, viri, ferte arma; vocat lux ultima victos, /
Nunquam omnes hodie moriemur inulti
Armé de foi hardi
Armes blanches
Arm in Arm mit dir, / So fordr' ich mein Jahrhundert in die Schranken
Arms and the man I sing.
Armuth des Geistes Gott erfreut, / Armuth,
und nicht Armseligkeit
Armuth ist der sechste Sinn
Armuth ist die grösste Plage, / Reichtum ist das höchste Gut
Armuth ist listig, sie fängt auch einen Fuchs
Armuth und Hunger haben viel gelehrte Jünger
A rogue is a roundabout fool.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A Rome comment à Rome
A royal heart is often hid under a tattered coat.
Arrectis auribus adsto
Arrière pensée
Arrogance is the obstruction of wisdom.
Ars artium omnium conservatrix
Ars est celare artem
Ars est sine arte, cujus principium est mentiri, medium laborare, et finis mendicare
Ars longa, vita brevis
Ars varia vulpis, ast una echino maxima
Art does not represent things falsely, but truly as they appear to mankind.
Arte magistra
Art is a jealous mistress.
Art is long and time is fleeting, / And our
hearts, though stout and brave, / Still, like muffled drums, are beating / Funeral marches to the grave.
Art is noble, but the sanctuary of the human soul is nobler still.
Art is not the bread indeed, but it is the wine of life.
Art is simply a bringing into relief of the obscure thought of Nature.
Art is the mediatrix of the unspeakable.
Art is the path of the creator to his work.
Art is the work of man under the guidance and inspiration of a mightier power.
Artists are of three classes: those who perceive and pursue the good, and leave the evil; those who perceive and pursue the good and evil together, the whole thing as it verily is; and those who perceive and pursue the evil, and leave the good.
Artium magister
Art may err, but Nature cannot miss.
Art may make a suit of clothes, but Nature
must produce a man.
Art must anchor in nature, or it is the sport of every breath of folly.
Art must not be a superficial talent, but must begin further back in man.
Art, not less eloquently than literature, teaches her children to venerate the single eye.
Art not thou a man?
Art rests on a kind of religious sense, on a
deep, steadfast earnestness; and on this account it unites so readily with religion.
Art thou afraid of death, and dost thou wish to live for ever? Live in the whole that remains when thou hast long been gone
A rude âne rude ânier
A rusty nail, placed near the faithful compass, / Will sway it from the truth, and wreck the argosy.
A sage is the instructor of a hundred ages.
A saint abroad, a devil at home.
A saint in crape is twice a saint in lawn.
As all men have some access to primary truth, so all have some art or power of communication in the head, but only in the artist does it descend into the hand.
As a man makes his bed, so must he lie.
As a priest, or interpreter of the holy, is the noblest and highest of all men; so is a sham priest the falsest and basest.
A satirical poet is the check of the layman on
bad priests.
As a tree falls, so shall it lie.
A scalded cat dreads cauld water.
As dear to me as are the ruddy drops / That visit my sad heart.
A second Daniel.
A secret is in my custody if I keep it; but if
I blab it, it is I that am prisoner.
A self-denial no less austere than the saint's is demanded of the scholar.
As ever in my great taskmaster's eye.
As every great evil, so every excessive power wears itself out at last.
As falls the dew on quenchless sands, / Blood only serves to wash ambition's hands.
As for discontentments, they are in the politic
body like humours in the natural, which are apt to gather a preternatural heat and inflame.
As formerly we suffered from wickedness, so now we suffer from the laws.
As for murmurs, mother, we grumble a little now and then, to be sure. But there's no love lost between us.
As for talkers and futile persons, they are commonly vain and credulous withal.
As from the wing no scar the sky retains, / The parted wave no furrow from the keel; So dies in human hearts the thought of death.
As good be out of the world as out of the
fashion.
As good almost kill a man as kill a good book; who kills a man kills a reasonable creature, God's image; but he who destroys a good book kills reason itself.
As guid fish i' the sea as e'er came oot o't.
As guid may haud (hold) the stirrup as he that loups on.
A's guid that God sends.
As he alone is a good father who at table serves
his children first, so is he alone a good citizen who, before all other outlays, discharges what he owes to the state.
As he who has health is young, so he who owes nothing is rich.
A short cut is often a wrong cut.
A sicht (sight) o' you is guid for sair een.
A sick man's sacrifice is but a lame oblation.
As idle as a painted ship / Upon a painted
ocean.
A sight to dream of, not to tell.
A silent man's words are not brought into court.
A sillerless (moneyless) man gangs fast through the market.
A silver key can open an iron lock.
A simple child, / That lightly draws its breath, /
And feels its life in every limb, / What should it know of death?
A simple maiden in her flower, / Is worth a hundred coats of arms.
A simple, manly character need never make an apology.
As in a theatre, the eyes of men, / After a well-graced actor leaves the stage, / Are idly bent on him that enters next, / Thinking his prattle to be tedious.
A single grateful thought turned heavenwards is the most perfect prayer.
A single moment may transform everything.
A single word is often a concentrated poem, a little grain of pure gold, capable of being beaten out into a broad extent of gold-leaf.
Asinum sub fræno currere docere
Asinus ad lyram
Asinus asino, et sus sui pulcher
Asinus in tegulis
Asinus inter simias
Asinus in unguento
As is the garden, such is the gardener.
As is the man, so is his God.
A sip is the most that mortals are permitted
from any goblet of delight.
Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened to you.
Ask for the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein.
Ask me no questions, and I'll tell you no fibs.
Ask why God made the gem so small, / And why so huge the granite? / Because God meant mankind should set / The higher value on it.
As long as any man exists, there is some need
of him.
As long lives a merry heart as a sad.
As love without esteem is capricious and volatile, esteem without love is languid and cold.
A slow fire makes sweet malt.
A small man, if he stands too near a great, may see single portions well, and, if he will survey the whole, must stand too far off, where his eyes do not reach the details.
A small sorrow distracts us, a great one makes
us collected.
A small unkindness is a great offence.
As man, perhaps, the moment of his breath, / Receives the lurking principle of death; / The young disease, that must subdue at length, / Grows with his growth, and strengthens with his strength.
As many suffer from too much as too little.
A smart coat is a good letter of introduction.
As merry as the day is long.
A smile abroad is oft a scowl at home.
A smile re-cures the wounding of a frown.
As much love, so much mind, or heart.
As much virtue as there is, so much appears; as much goodness as there is, so much reverence it commands.
A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
A society of people will cursorily represent a certain culture, though there is not a gentleman or a lady in the group.
A soldier, / Seeking the bubble reputation / Even in the cannon's mouth.
A solis ortu usque ad occasum
A song will outlive all sermons in the memory.
A sorrow's crown of sorrow is remembering happier things.
A sorrow shared is but half a trouble, / But a joy that's shared is a joy made double.
A' sottili cascano le brache
A soul without reflection, like a pile / Without inhabitant, to ruin runs.
A spark neglected makes a mighty fire.
A species is a succession of individuals which perpetuates itself.
Asperæ facetiæ ubi multum ex vero traxere, acrem sui memoriam relinquunt
Asperius nihil est humili, cum surgit in altum
Aspettare e non venire, / Stare in letto e non dormire, / Ben servire e non gradire, / Son tre cose da morire
A spirit may be known from only a single
thought.
As poor as Job.
A spot is most seen on the finest cloth.
As proud go behind as before.
A spur in the head is worth two in the heels.
As reason is a rebel unto faith, so is passion
unto reason.
Assai acqua passa per il molino, che il molinaio non se n'accorge
Assai basta, e troppo guasta
Assai ben balla, à chi fortuna suona
Assai è ricco à chi non manca
Assai guadagna chi vano sperar perde
Assai sa, chi non sa, se tacer sa
Assez a qui se contente
Assez dort qui rien ne fait
Assez gagne qui malheur perd
Assez sait qui sait vivre et se taire
Assez tôt si assez bien
Assez y a, si trop n'y a
Associate with the good, and you will be esteemed one of them.
As some tall cliff, that lifts its awful form, / Swells from the vale, and midway leaves the storm, / Though round its breast the rolling clouds are spread, / Eternal sunshine settles on its head.
As soon as a man is born he begins to die.
As soon as beauty is sought, not from religion and love, but for pleasure, it degrades the seeker.
As soon as the soul sees any object, it stops before that object.
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
Assumpsit
Assurance is two-thirds of success.
A state is never greater than when all its superfluous hands are employed in the service of the public.
A state of violence cannot be perpetual, or disaster and ruin would be universal.
A statesman requires rather a large converse with men, and much intercourse in life, than deep study of books.
A stern discipline pervades all Nature, which is a little cruel that it may be very kind.
As the births of living creatures at first are
ill-shapen, so are all innovations, which are the births of time.
As the first order of wisdom is to know thyself, so the first order of charity is to be sufficient for thyself.
As the fool thinks, the bell clinks.
As the good man saith, so say we: / As the good woman saith, so it must be.
As the husband is, the wife is: / Thou art mated with a clown, / And the grossness of his nature / Will have weight to drag thee down.
As the man is, so is his strength.
As the old cock crows, the young one learns.
As there is no worldly gain without some loss, so there is no worldly loss without some gain.
As the sun breaks through the darkest clouds, / So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
As the youth lives in the future, so the man lives with the past; no one knows rightly how to live in the present.
As thy days, so shall thy strength be.
A still, small voice.
A stitch in time saves nine.
As to the value of conversions, God alone can judge.
Astra castra, numen lumen
Astræa redux
A straight line is the shortest in morals as well as in geometry.
A strange fish.
Astra regunt homines, sed regit astra Deus
A strenuous soul hates cheap success.
A strong memory is generally joined to a weak judgment.
A strong soil that has produced weeds may be made to produce wheat with far less difficulty than it would cost to make it produce nothing.
Astronomy has revealed the great truth that
the whole universe is bound together by one all-pervading influence.
A' Stuarts are no sib (related) to the king
Astutior coccyge
A subject's faults a subject may proclaim, / A monarch's errors are forbidden game.
A substitute shines brightly as a king, until a king be by.
A sudden thought strikes me, / Let us swear
an eternal friendship.
A sunbeam passes through pollution unpolluted.
A surfeit of sweetest things.
As water spilt upon the ground, which cannot be gathered up again.
As we advance in life, we learn the limits of our abilities.
As we are born to work, so others are born to
watch over us while working.
As weel be oot o' the world as oot o' the fashion.
As wholesome meat corrupteth to little worms, so good forms and orders corrupt into a number of petty observances.
As yet a child, not yet a fool to fame, / I lisp'd in numbers, for the numbers came.
As you do to others, expect others to do to you.
As you make your bed you must lie on it.
As you sow you shall reap.
A tale never loses in the telling.
A talisman that shall turn base metal into precious, Nature acknowledges not; but a talisman to turn base souls into noble, Nature has given us; and that is a "philosopher's stone," but it is a stone which the builders refuse.
A tâtons
A tattler is worse than a thief.
A (man of) teachable mind will hang about a wise man's neck.
At every trifle scorn to take offence; / That always shows great pride or little sense.
At first one omits writing for a little while; and then one stays a little while to consider of excuses; and at last it grows desperate, and one does not write at all.
At the gates of the forest the surprised man
of the world is forced to leave his city estimates of great and small, wise and foolish.
Atheism is rather in the life than in the heart of man.
Atheism leaves a man to sense, to philosophy, to natural piety, to laws, to reputation, all which may be guides to an outward moral virtue, though religion were not; but superstition dismounts all these, and erecteth an absolute monarchy in the minds of men.
A thief knows a thief, as a wolf knows a wolf.
A thing is the bigger of being shared.
A thing is what it is, only in and by means of
its limit.
A thing is worth what it
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever; / Its loveliness increases; it will never / Pass into nothingness.
A thing you don't want is dear at any price.
A thinking man is the worst enemy the Prince of Darkness can have.
A third interprets motion, looks, and eyes, /
At every word a reputation dies.
A thorn is a changed bud.
A thorough-paced antiquary not only remembers what others have thought proper to forget, but he also forgets what others think proper to remember.
A thousand years scarce serve to form a state; / An hour may lay it in the dust.
A thread will tie an honest man better than a rope will do a rogue.
A threatened blow is seldom given.
A threefold cord is not quickly broken.
A thrill passes through all men at the reception of a new truth, or at the performance of a great action, which comes out of the heart of nature.... By the necessity of our constitution, a certain enthusiasm attends the individual's consciousness of that Divine presence.
At ingenium ingens / Inculto latet hoc sub corpore
At no age should a woman be allowed to govern herself as she pleases.
A tocherless dame sits lang at hame.
A toom (empty) pantry maks a thriftless guid-wife.
A tort et à travers
A toute force
A toute seigneur tout honneur
At pulchrum est digito monstrari et dicier hic
est
Atque in rege tamen pater est
Atqui vultus erat multa et præclara minantis
A trade of barbarians.
A tragic farce.
A travelled man has leave to lie.
A traveller of taste at once perceives that the wise are polite all the world over, but that fools are only polite at home.
A tree is known by its fruit.
Atria regum hominibus plena sunt, amicis vacua
Atrocitatis mansuetudo est remedium
A true-bred merchant is the best gentleman in the nation.
A true genius may be known by this sign, that the dunces are all in confederacy against him.
A true man hates no one.
A truly great genius will be the first to prescribe limits for its own exertions.
A truth / Looks freshest in the fashion of the day.
A truth to an age that has rejected and trampled on it, is not a word of peace, but a sword.
At spes non fracta
Attempts at reform, when they fail, strengthen
despotism; as he that struggles tightens those cords he does not succeed in breaking.
Attempt the end, and never stand to doubt; / Nothing's so hard, but search will find it out.
Attendez à la nuit pour dire que le jour a été beau
Attention makes the genius; all learning, fancy, and science depend on it.
At the sight of a
At thirty, man suspects himself a fool, / Knows
it at forty, and reforms his plan. / At fifty, chides his infamous delay. / Pushes his prudent purpose to resolve. / Resolves--and re-resolves; then dies the same.
At twenty years of age, the will reigns; at thirty, the wit; and at forty, the judgment.
A tu hijo, buen nombre y oficio
A tutti non si adatta una sola scarpa
At vindictum bonum vita jucundius ipsa. Nempe hoc indocti
At whose sight all the stars / Hide their diminished
heads.
Au bon droit
Au bout de son Latin
Au bout du compte
Auch aus entwölkter Höhe / Kann der zündende Donner schlagen; / Darum in deinen fröhlichen Tagen / Fürchte des Unglücks tückische Nähe
Auch Bücher haben ihr Erlebtes, das ihnen
nicht entzogen werden kann
Auch das Schöne muss sterben
Auch der Löwe muss sich vor der Mücke wehren
Auch die Gerechtigkeit trägt eine Binde, / Und schliesst die Augen jedem Blendwerk zu
Auch die Kultur, die alle Welt beleckt, / Hat auf den Teufel sich erstreckt
Auch die Kunst ist Himmelsgabe, / Borgt sie
gleich von ird'scher Glut
Auch ein Haar hat seinen Schatten
Auch für die rauhe Brust giebt's Augenblicke / Wo dunkle Mächte Melodien wecken
Auch ich war ein Jüngling mit lockigem Haar, / An Mut und an Hoffnungen reich
Auch ich war in Arkadien geboren, / Und ward daraus entführt vom neidischen Glücke. / Ist hier der Rückweg? fragt' ich jede Brücke, / Der Eingang hier? fragt' ich an allen Thoren
Auch in der That ist Raum für Ueberlegung
Auch was Geschriebenes forderst du, Pedant? / Hast du noch keinen Mann, nicht Mannes-Wort gekannt?
Au courant
Auctor pretiosa facit
Aucto splendore resurgo
Aucun chemin de fleurs ne conduit à la gloire
Audacia pro muro habetur
Audacter calumniare, semper aliquid hæret
Audacter et sincere
Audax ad omnia fœmina, quæ vel amat vel odit
Audax omnia perpeti / Gens humana ruit per
vetitum et nefas
Aude aliquid brevibus Gyaris et carcere dignum, / Si vis esse aliquis
Audendo magnus tegitur timor
Audentes Fortuna juvat
Au dernier les os
Aude sapere
Au désespoir
Audi alteram partem
Audiatur et altera pars
Audio sed taceo
Audita querela
Auditque vocatus Apollo
Audi, vide, tace, si vis vivere in pace
Au fait
Auf dem Grund des Glaubenmeeres / Liegt die Perle der Erkenntniss; Heil dem Taucher, der sie findet
Auf den Bergen ist Freiheit
Auf die warnenden Symptome sieht kein
Mensch, auf die Schmeichelnden und Versprechenden allein ist die Aufmerksamkeit gerichtet
Auf Dinge, die nicht mehr zu ändern sind, / Muss auch kein Blick zurück mehr fallen! Was / Gethan ist, ist gethan und bleiht's
Auf ebnem Boden straucheln ist ein Scherz, / Ein Fehltritt stürzt vom Gipfel dich herab
Auferimur cultu: gemmis auroque teguntur / Omnia; pars minima est ipsa puella sui
Aufgeschoben ist nicht aufgehoben
Aufklärung
Au fond
Aufrichtig zu sein kann ich versprechen; unparteiisch zu sein aber nicht
Auf Teufel reimt der Zweifel nur; / Da bin ich recht am Platze
Auf Wind und Meer gebautes Glück ist schwankend
Augiæ cloacas purgare
Augusto felicior, Trajano melior
Aujourd'hui marié, demain marri
Aula regis
Auld folk are twice bairns.
Auld Nature swears the lovely dears, / Her
noblest work she classes, O; / Her 'prentice han' she tried on man, / An' then she made the lasses, O.
Au nouveau tout est beau
Au pis aller
Au plaisir fort de Dieu
Aura popularis
Aurea mediocritas
Aurea nunc vere sunt sæcula; plurimus auro / Venit honos: auro conciliatur amor
Aureo piscari hamo
Au reste
Au revoir
Auri sacra fames
Auro loquente nihil pollet quævis ratio
Aurora musis amica
Aus dem Gebet erwächst des Geistes Sieg
Aus dem Kleinsten setzt / Sich Grosses zusammen zuletzt, / Und keins darf fehlen von allen, / Wenn nicht das Ganze soll fallen
Aus dem Leben heraus sind der Wege drei
dir geöffnet, / Zum Ideale führt einer, der andre zum Tod
Aus der Jugendzeit, aus der Jugendzeit / Klingt ein Lied mir immerdar, / O wie liegt so weit, O wie liegt so weit, / Was mein einst war
Aus der schlechtesten Hand kann Wahrheit noch mächtig wirken; / Bei dem Schönen allein macht das Gefäss den Gehalt
Aus derselben Ackerkrume / Wächst das Unkraut wie die Blume / Und das Unkraut macht sich breit
A useful trade is a mine of gold.
A useless life is an early death.
Aus grauser Tiefe tritt das Höhe kühn hervor; / Aus harter Hülle kämpft die Tugend sich hervor; / Der Schmerz ist die Geburt der höhern Naturen
Aus jedem Punkt im Kreis zur Mitte geht ein Steg. / Vom fernsten Irrtum selbst zu Gott zurück ein Weg
Aus Mässigkeit entspringt ein reines Glück
Auspicium melioris ævi
Aussitôt dit, aussitôt fait
Aus ungelegten Eiern werden spät junge Hühner
Ausus est vana contemnere
Aut amat, aut odit mulier; nil est tertium
Autant chemine un homme en un jour qu'un limaçon en cent ans
Autant dépend chiche que large, et à la fin plus davantage
Autant en emporte le vent
Autant pèche celui qui tient le sac que celui qui met dedans
Autant vaut l'homme comme il s'estime
Aut bibat, aut abeat
Aut Cæsar aut nihil
Authority, not majority.
Authors alone, with more than savage rage, / Unnatural war with brother authors wage.
Authors are martyrs, witnesses to the truth,
or else nothing.
Authors may be divided into falling stars, planets, and fixed stars: the first have a momentary effect; the second, a much longer duration; and the third are unchangeable, possess their own light, and shine for all time.
Aut insanit homo, aut versus facit
Aut non tentaris, aut perfice
Auto-da-fé
Aut prodesse volunt aut delectare poetæ
Autrefois acquis
Aut regem aut fatuum nasci oportere
Autre temps, autres mœurs
Aut vincere aut mori
Aut virtus nomen inane est, / Aut decus et pretium recte petit experiens vir
Aux armes
Aux grands maux les grands remèdes
Auxilium ab alto
Auxilium meum a Domino
Avant propos
Avaler des couleuvres
A valiant and brave soldier seeks rather to preserve one citizen than to destroy a thousand enemies.
Avancez
Avarice has ruined more men than prodigality.
Avarus, nisi cum moritur, nil recte facit
Avec un Si on mettrait Paris dans une bouteille
A verbis ad verbera
A verse may find him who a sermon flies, / And turn delight into a sacrifice.
A very excellent piece of villany.
A very good woman may make but a paltry man.
A veste logorata poco fede vien prestata
A vinculo matrimonii
A virtuous name is the sole precious good for which queens and peasants' wives must contest together.
Avise la fin
Avito viret honore
Avoid the evil, and it will avoid thee.
A volonté
A votre santé
A wee bush is better than nae bield (shelter).
A weel-bred dog gaes oot when he sees them preparing to kick him oot.
A well-bred man is always sociable and complaisant.
A well-cultivated mind is, so to say, made up of all the minds of the centuries preceding.
A well-governed appetite is a great part of liberty.
A well-written life is almost as rare as a well-spent
one.
A wicked fellow is the most pious when he takes to it. He'll beat you all in piety.
A wilful man must have his way.
A willing mind makes a light foot.
A wise man gets learning frae them that hae nane.
A wise man is never less alone than when
alone.
A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength.
A wise man neither suffers himself to be governed, nor attempts to govern others.
A wise man should have money in his head, but not in his heart.
A wise man will make more opportunities than he finds.
A wise physician, skill'd our wounds to heal, / Is more than armies to the public weal.
A wise scepticism is the first attribute of a good critic.
A wise writer does not reveal himself here and there, but everywhere.
A witless heed (head) mak's weary feet.
A wit with dunces, and a dunce with wits.
A wolf in sheep's clothing.
A woman conceals what she does not know.
A woman has two smiles that an angel might envy: the smile that accepts the lover before the words are uttered, and the smile that lights on the first-born baby, and assures it of a mother's love.
A woman in love is a very poor judge of character.
A woman moved is like a fountain troubled, /
Muddy, ill-seeming, thick, bereft of beauty.
A woman's friendship borders more closely on love than a man's.
A woman's head is always influenced by her heart; but a man's heart is always influenced by his head.
A woman sometimes scorns what best contents her.
A woman's whole life is a history of the affections.
A word and a stone let go cannot be recalled.
A word from a friend is doubly enjoyable in dark days.
A word once vulgarised can never be rehabilitated.
A word sooner wounds than heals.
A word spoken in season, at the right moment, is the mother of ages.
A word spoken in due season, how good is it?
A work of real merit finds favour at last.
A world all sincere, a believing world; the like has been; the like will again be--cannot help being.
A world in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A world this in which much is to be done, and little to be known.
A worn-out sinner is sometimes found to make
the best declaimer against sin.
A worthless man will always remain worthless, and a little mind will not, by daily intercourse with great minds, become an inch greater.
A wounded spirit who can bear?
A wound never heals so well that the scar cannot be seen.
A wreck on shore is a beacon at sea.
A wretched soul, bruised with adversity, / We
bid be quiet when we hear it cry; / But were we burdened with like weight of pain, / As much, or more, we should ourselves complain.
Ay, but to die, and go we know not where; / To lie in cold obstruction and to rot.
Aye free, aff-han' your story tell, when wi' a bosom crony; / But still keep something to yoursel' / Ye scarcely tell to ony.
Aye in a hurry, and aye ahint.
Ay, every inch a king.
Ay me! for aught that ever I could read, /
Could ever hear by tale or history, / The course of true love never did run smooth.
Aymez loyauté
A young man idle, an old man needy.
Ay, sir, to be honest as this world goes, is to be one man picked out of two thousand.
Bachelor, a peacock; betrothed, a lion; wedded, an ass.
"Bad company," muttered the thief, as he
stepped to the gallows between the hangman and a monk.
Bad is by its very nature negative, and can do nothing; whatsoever enables us to do anything, is by its very nature good.
Bad laws are the worst sort of tyranny.
Bad men excuse their faults; good men will leave them.
Bal abonné
Bal champêtre
Ballon d'essai
Banish the canker of ambitious thoughts.
Bankrupt of life, yet prodigal of ease.
Barba bagnata è mezza rasa
Barbæ tenus sapientes
Barbarism is no longer at our frontiers; it lives side by side with us.
Barbarism is the non-appreciation of what is excellent.
Barbarus hic ego sum, quia non intelligor ulli
Barbouillage
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Bas bleu
Base envy withers at another's joy, / And hates that excellence it cannot reach.
Base in kind, and born to be a slave.
Base men, being in love, have then a nobility in their natures more than is native to them.
Base souls have no faith in great men.
Bashfulness is an ornament to youth, but a reproach to old age.
Bashfulness is but the passage from one season of life to another.
Basis virtutum constantia
Battering the gates of heaven with storms of prayer.
Battle's magnificently stern array.
Be a philosopher; but, amidst all your philosophy, be still a man.
Beard was never the true standard of brains.
Bear one another's burdens.
Bear wealth, poverty will bear itself.
Be a sinner and sin manfully (fortiter), but believe and rejoice in Christ more manfully still.
Be as you would seem to be.
Beatæ memoriæ
Beati monoculi in regione cæcorum
Beatus ille qui procul negotiis, / Ut prisca
gens mortalium, / Paterna rura bobus exercet suis, / Solutus omni fœnore
Beaucoup de mémoire et peu de jugement
Beau idéal
Beau monde
Beauté et folie sont souvent en compagnie
Beauties in vain their pretty eyes may roll; /
Charms strike the sight, but merit wins the soul.
Beautiful it is to understand and know that a thought did never yet die; that as thou, the originator thereof, hast gathered it and created it from the whole past, so thou wilt transmit to the whole future.
Beauty blemished once, for ever's lost.
Beauty can afford to laugh at distinctions; it is itself the greatest distinction.
Beauty carries its dower in its face.
Beauty depends more on the movement of the
face than the form of the features.
Beauty doth varnish age, as if new-born, / And gives the crutch the cradle's infancy. / O, 'tis the sun that maketh all things shine.
Beauty draws us with a single hair.
Beauty is a good letter of introduction.
Beauty is a hovering, shining, shadowy form, the outline of which no definition holds.
Beauty is an all-pervading presence.
Beauty is a patent of nobility.
Beauty is as summer fruits, which are easy to corrupt and cannot last.
Beauty is a witch, / Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.
Beauty is bought by judgment of the eye, / Not utter'd by base sale of chapmen's tongues.
Beauty is but a vain and doubtful good.
Beauty is everywhere a right welcome guest.
Beauty is never a delusion.
Beauty is the flowering of virtue.
Beauty is the highest principle and the highest aim of art.
Beauty is the pilot of the young soul.
Beauty is the purgation of superfluities.
Beauty is truth, truth beauty--that is all / Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.
Beauty is worse than wine; it intoxicates both holder and the beholder.
Beauty, like wit, to judges should be shown; / Both most are valued where they best are known.
Beauty lives with kindness.
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
Beauty should be the dowry of every man and woman.
Beauty stands / In the admiration only of weak minds, / Led captive.
Beauty's tears are lovelier than her smile.
Beauty too rich for use; for earth too dear.
Beauty, when unadorned, adorned the most.
Beauty without expression tires.
Beauty without grace is a violet without smell.
Beaux esprits
Be bold, be bold, and everywhere be bold.
Be checked for silence, / But never tax'd for speech.
Be commonplace and cringing, and everything is within your reach.
Bedenkt, der Teufel der ist alt, / So werdet alt ihn zu verstehen
Be discreet in all things, and so render it unnecessary to be mysterious about any.
Be England what she will, / With all her faults
she is my country still.
Bees will not work except in darkness; thought will not work except in silence; neither will virtue work except in secrecy.
Before a leaf-bud has burst, its whole life acts; in the full-blown flower there is no more; in the leafless root there is no less.
Before every one stands an image (Bild) of what he ought to be; so long as he is not that, his peace is not complete.
Before honour is humility.
Before man made us citizens, great Nature
made us men.
Before the curing of a strong disease, / Even in the instant of repair and health, / The fit is strongest; evils that take leave, / On their departure most of all show evil.
Before the immense possibilities of man, all mere experience, all past biography, however spotless and sainted, shrinks away.
Before the revelations of the soul, Time, Space, and Nature shrink away.
Before you trust a man, eat a peck of salt with him.
Beggars, mounted, run their horse to death.
Beggars must not be choosers.
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks.
Begnügt euch doch ein Mensch zu sein
Begun is half done.
Behaupten ist nicht beweisen
Behaviour is a mirror in which each one shows his image.
Behind a frowning providence / God hides a shining face.
Behind us, as we go, all things assume pleasing forms, as clouds do afar off.
Behind every individual closes organisation;
before him opens liberty.
Behind every mountain lies a vale.
Behold how great a matter a little fire kindleth.
Beholding heaven and feeling hell.
Behold now is the accepted time.
Behold the child, by Nature's kindly law, /
Pleased with a rattle, tickled with a straw.
Bei den meisten Menschen gründet sich der Unglaube in einer Sache auf blinden Glauben in einer andern
Bei Geldsachen hört die Gemütlichkeit auf
Beinahe bringt keine Mücke um
Being alone when one's belief is firm, is not to be alone.
Being done, / There is no pause.
Being without well-being is a curse; and the greater being, the greater curse.
Be in possession, and thou hast the right, and sacred will the many guard it for thee.
Be it never so humble, there's no place like home.
Bei wahrer Liebe ist Vertrauen
Be just and fear not; / Let all the ends thou
aim'st at be thy country's, / Thy God's, and truth's.
Be just before you be generous.
Beleidigst du einen Mönch, so knappen alle Kuttenzipfel bis nach Rom
Bel esprit
Belief and love,--a believing love, will relieve us of a vast load of care.
Belief consists in accepting the affirmations of
the soul; unbelief, in denying them.
Believe not each accusing tongue, / As most weak persons do; / But still believe that story wrong / Which ought not to be true.
Believe not every spirit.
Bella! horrida bella!
Bella femmina che ride, vuol dire borsa che piange
Bella matronis detestata
Belle, bonne, riche, et sage, est une femme en quatre étages
Belle chose est tôt ravie
Bellet ein alter Hund, so soll man aufschauen
Bellicæ virtutis præmium
Bellua multorum capitum
Bellum internecinum
Bellum ita suscipiatur, ut nihil aliud nisi pax quæsita videatur
Bellum nec timendum nec provocandum
Bellum omnium in omnes
Bellum, pax rursus
Bemerke, höre, schweige. Urteile wenig, frage viel
Be modest without diffidence, proud without presumption.
Benchè la bugia sia veloce, la verità l'arriva
Beneath the loveliest dream there coils a fear.
Beneath the rule of men entirely great, the pen is mightier than the sword.
Beneath those rugged elms, that yew-tree's shade, / Where heaves the turf in many a mouldering heap, / Each in his narrow cell for ever laid, / The rude forefathers of the hamlet sleep.
Ben è cieco chi non vede il sole
Benedetto è quel male che vien solo
Bene est cui Deus obtulit / Parca quod satis
est manu
Benefacta male locata, malefacta arbitror
Benefacta sua verbis adornant
Beneficia dare qui nescit injuste petit
Beneficia plura recipit qui scit reddere
Beneficium accipere libertatem vendere est
Beneficium dignis ubi des, omnes obliges
Beneficium invito non datur
Beneficus est qui non sua, sed alterius causa benigne facit
Bene merenti bene profuerit, male merenti par erit
Bene merentibus
Bene nummatum decorat Suedela Venusque
Bene orasse est bene studuisse
Bene qui latuit, bene vixit
Benevolence is the distinguishing characteristic of man.
Benigno numine
Benignus etiam dandi causam cogitat
Be no one like another, yet every one like the Highest; to this end let each one be perfect in himself.
Be not angry that you cannot make others what you wish them to be, since you cannot make yourself what you wish to be.
Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.
Be not righteous overmuch.
Be not the first by whom the new is tried, / Nor yet the last to lay the old aside.
Ben trovato
Be our joy three-parts pain! Strive, and hold cheap the strain; / Learn, nor account the pang; dare, never grudge the throe!
Berretta in mano non fece mai danno
Bescheiden freue dich des Ruhms, / So bist du
wert des Heiligthums
Bescheidenheit ist eine Zier, / Doch weiter kommt man ohne ihr
Beseht die Gönner in der Nähe! Halb sind sie kalt, halb sind sie roh
Besiegt von einem, ist besiegt von allen
Be silent, or say something better than silence.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in
changing him.
Be sober, be vigilant.
Besser ein Flick als ein Loch
Besser ein magrer Vergleich als ein fetter Prozess
Besser frei in der Fremde als Knecht daheim
Besser freundlich versagen als unwillig gewähren
Besser Rat kommt über Nacht
Besser was als gar nichts
Besser zweimal fragen dann einmal irre gehn
Be still and have thy will.
Be stirring as the time; be fire with fire; /
Threaten the threatner, and outface the brow / Of bragging horror; so shall inferior eyes, / That borrow their behaviours from the great, / Grow great by your example, and put on / The dauntless spirit of resolution.
Best men are moulded out of faults.
Be strong, and quit yourselves like men.
Best time is present time.
Be substantially great in thyself, and more than thou appearest unto others.
Be sure you can obey good laws before you
seek to alter bad ones.
Be sure your sin will find you out.
Be swift to hear, slow to speak.
Bête noir
Beter eens in den hemel dan tienmaal aan de deur
Be thankful for your ennui; it is your last
mark of manhood.
Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny.
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath, / And breath of life, I have no life to breathe / What thou hast said to me.
Be thou faithful unto death.
Bêtise
Be to her virtues very kind; / Be to her faults
a little blind.
Betrogene Betrüger
Betrügen und betrogen werden, / Nichts ist gewöhnlicher auf Erden
Betrug war Alles, Lug, und Schein
Bettelsack ist bodenlos
Better a blush in the face than a blot in the
heart.
Better a child should be ignorant of a thousand truths than have consecrated in its heart a single lie.
Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without one.
Better a fortune in a wife than with a wife.
Better a fremit freend than a freend fremit
Better a living dog than a dead lion.
Better an egg to-day than a hen to-morrow.
Better an end with terror than a terror without
end.
Better a toom (empty) house than an ill tenant.
Better a witty fool than a foolish wit.
Better bairns greet (weep) than bearded men.
Better be at the end o' a feast than the beginning o' a fray.
Better be a nettle in the side of your friend
than his echo.
Better be a poor fisherman than have to do with the governing of men.
Better be disagreeable in a sort than altogether insipid.
Better be idle than ill employed.
Better bend than break.
Better be persecuted than shunned.
Better be poor than wicked.
Better be unborn than untaught.
Better buy than borrow.
Better deny at once than promise long.
Better far off, than--near, be ne'er the near'.
Better far to die in the old harness than to try to put on another.
Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay.
Better go back than go wrong.
Better go to bed supperless than rise in debt.
Better haud (hold on) wi' the hound than rin
wi' the hare.
Better is an ass that carries us than a horse that throws us.
Better it is to be envied than pitied.
Better keep the deil oot than hae to turn him oot.
Better keep weel than mak' weel.
Better knot straws than do nothing.
Better lose a jest than a friend.
Better mad with all the world than wise all alone.
Better my freen's think me fremit as fasheous
Better never begin than never make an end.
Better not be at all / Than not be noble.
Better not read books in which you make the acquaintance of the devil.
Better one-eyed than stone-blind.
Better one living word than a hundred dead ones.
Better rue sit than rue flit
Better say nothing than nothing to the purpose.
Better sit still than rise and fa'.
Better sma' fish than nane.
Better suffer for truth than prosper by falsehood.
Better ten guilty escape than one innocent man suffer.
Better that people should laugh at one while
they instruct, than that they should praise without benefiting.
Better the ill ken'd than the ill unken'd
Better the world know you as a sinner than God as a hypocrite.
Better to ask than go astray.
Better to get wisdom than gold.
Better to hunt in fields for health unbought, /
Than fee the doctor for a nauseous draught. / The wise for cure on exercise depend; / God never made his work for man to mend.
Better to reign in hell than serve in heaven.
Better to say "Here it is" than "Here it was."
Better understand the world than condemn it.
Better untaught than ill taught.
Better wear out than rust out.
Better wear shoon (shoes) than sheets.
Better wrong with the many than right with the few.
Between a woman's "Yes" and "No" you may insert the point of a needle.
Between saying and doing there's a long road.
Between the acting of a dreadful thing / And
the first motion, all the interim is / Like a phantasma or a hideous dream.
Between the deil and the deep sea.
Between us and hell or heaven there is nothing but life, which of all things is the frailest.
Beware, my lord, of jealousy; / It is the green-eyed monster that doth mock / The meat it feeds on.
Beware of a silent dog and still water.
Beware of a silent man and a dog that does
not bark.
Beware of a talent which you cannot hope to cultivate to perfection.
Beware / Of entrance to a quarrel; but, being in, / Bear 't that the opposed may beware of thee.
Beware of false prophets.
Beware of "Had I wist."
Beware of one who has nothing to lose.
Beware of too much good staying in your hand.
Beware the fury of a patient man.
Beware when the great God lets loose a thinker on this planet.
Be warned by thy good angel and not ensnared by thy bad one.
Be wisely worldly; be not worldly wise.
Be wise to-day; 'tis madness to defer.
Be wise with speed; / A fool at forty is a fool indeed.
Bewunderung verdient ein Wunder wohl, / Doch scheint ein Weib kein echtes Weib zu sein, / So bald es nur Bewunderung verdient
Be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
Bezwingt des Herzens Bitterkeit. Es bringt /
Nicht gute Frucht, wenn Hass dem Hass begegnet
Bibula charta
Bien dire fait rire; bien faire fait taire
Bien est larron qui larron dérobe
Bien nourri et mal appris
Bien perdu bien connu
Bien predica quien bien vive
Bien sabe el asno en cuya cara rabozna
Bien sabe el sabio que no sabe, el nescio piensa que sabe
Bien sabe la vulpeja con quien trebeja
Bien vengas, mal, si vienes solo
Bien vient à mieux, et mieux à mal
 _g
Bigotry murders religion, to frighten fools with her ghost.
Big words seldom accompany good deeds.
Billet-doux
Biography is the most universally pleasant, the most universally profitable, of all reading.
Biography is the only true history.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Birds of prey do not flock together.
Birth is much, but breeding is more.
Bis dat qui cito dat
Bis est gratum quod opus est, si ultro offeras
Bis interimitur qui suis armis perit
Bisogna amar l'amico con i suoi difetti
Bis peccare in bello non licet
Bist du Amboss, sei geduldig; bist du Hammer, schlage hart
Bist du ein Mensch? so fühle meine Noth
Bist du mit dem Teufel du und du, / Und willst dich vor der Flamme scheuen?
Bis vincit qui se vincit in victoria
Bitin' and scartin' 's Scotch folk's wooing.
Black detraction will find faults where they are not.
Blame is the lazy man's wages.
Blame where you must, be candid where you can, / And be each critic the good-natured man.
Blanc-bec
Blasen ist nicht flöten; ihr musst die Finger
bewegen
Blasphemy is wishing ill to anything, and its outcome wishing ill to God; while Euphemy is wishing well to everything, and its outcome wishing well to--"Ah, wad ye tak' a thocht, and men'."
Blasted with excess of light.
Bleib nicht allein, denn in der Wüste trat / Der Satansengel selbst dem Herrn des Himmels
Bless, and curse not.
Blessed are they that have not seen, and yet
have believed.
Blessed are they that hear the Word of God, and keep it.
Blessed be he who first invented sleep; it covers a man all over like a cloak.
Blessed be nothing.
Blessed is he that considereth the poor.
Blessed is he that continueth where he is; here
let us rest and lay out seed-fields; here let us learn to dwell.
Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.
Blessed is he who is made happy by the sound of a rat-tat.
Blessed is the man that endureth temptation.
Blessed is the voice that, amid dispiritment, stupidity, and contradiction, proclaims to us, Euge!
Blessedness is a whole eternity older than
damnation.
Blessings are upon the head of the just.
Blinder Eifer schadet nur
Blinder Gaul geht geradezu
Blindfold zeal can do nothing but harm--harm everywhere, and harm always.
Bloemen zijn geen vruchten
Blood is thicker than water.
Blosse Intelligenz ohne correspondirende Energie des Wollens ist ein blankes Schwert in der Scheide, verächtlich, wenn es nie und nimmer gezückt wird
Blow, blow, thou winter wind, / Thou art not so unkind / As man's ingratitude.
Blow, wind! come, wrack! / At least we'll die with harness on our back.
Blue are the hills that are far from us.
Blunt edges rive hard knots.
Blushes are badges of imperfection.
Blut ist ein ganz besondrer Saft
Boca de mel, coraçaõ de fel
Boca que diz sim, diz naõ
Bodily exercise profiteth little.
Bœotum in crasso jurares aëre natum
Bois ont oreilles et champs œillets
Bole com o rabo o caõ, naõ por ti, senaõ pelo paõ
Bon accord
Bonæ leges malis ex moribus procreantur
Bona fide
Bona malis paria non sunt, etiam pari numero; nec lætitia ulla minimo mœrore pensanda
Bona nemini hora est, ut non alicui sit mala
Bonarum rerum consuetudo est pessima
Bona vacantia
Bon avocat, mauvais voisin
Bon bourgeois
Bon chien chasse de race
Bon diable
Bon droit a besoin d'aide
Bon gré, mal gré
Bon guet chasse maladventure
Bonne épée point querelleur
Bonne est la maille que sauve le denier
Bonhomie
Boni pastoris est tondere pecus, non deglubere
Bonis avibus
Bonis nocet quisquis pepercerit malis
Bonis omnia bona
Bonis quod benefit haud perit
Bonis vel malis avibus
Bon jour
Bon jour, bonne œuvre
Bon marché tire l'argent hors de la bourse
Bon mot
Bon naturel
Bonne
Bonne bouche
Bonne et belle assez
Bonne journée fait qui de fol se délivre
Bonne renommée vaut mieux que ceinture dorée
Bonnet rouge
Bonnie feathers mak' bonnie fowls.
Bon poète, mauvais homme
Bon sang ne peut mentir
Bons et máos mantem cidade
Bons mots n'épargnent nuls
Bon soir
Bon ton
Bonum ego quam beatum me esse nimio dici
mavolo
Bonum est fugienda aspicere in alieno malo
Bonum est, pauxillum amare sane, insane non bonum est
Bonum summum quo tendimus omnes
Bonus animus in mala re dimidium est mali
Bonus atque fidus / Judex honestum prætulit
utili
Bonus dux bonum reddit militem
Bonus vir semper tiro
Bon vivant
Bon voyage
Books are divisible into two classes, the books
of the hour and the books of all time.
Books are embalmed minds.
Books are made from books.
Books cannot always please, however good; / Minds are not ever craving for their food.
Books generally do little else than give our errors names.
Books, like friends, should be few and well chosen.
Books still accomplish miracles; they persuade men.
Books, we know, / Are a substantial world, pure and good.
Boomen die men veel verplant gedijen zelden
Borgen thut nur einmal wohl
Born to excel and to command!
Borrowing from Peter to pay Paul.
Borrowing is not much better than begging; just as lending on interest is not much better than stealing.
Bos alienus subinde prospectat foras
Böser Brunnen, da man Wasser muss eintragen
Böser Pfennig kommt immer wieder
Bos in lingua
Bos lassus fortius figit pedem
Botschaft hör' ich wohl, allein mir fehlt der
Glaube
Bought wit is best
Boutez en avant
Bowels of compassion.
Brag is a good dog, but Holdfast is better.
Brain is always to be bought, but passion never comes to market.
Brave men are brave from the very first.
Bread at pleasure, / Drink by measure.
Bread is the staff of life.
Breathes there the man with soul so dead, /
Who never to himself hath said, / "This is my own, my native land?"
Breathe his faults so quaintly, / That they may seem the taints of liberty; / The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind.
Breed is stronger than pasture.
Brevet d'invention
Breveté
Breve tempus ætatis satis est longum ad bene
honesteque vivendum
Brevi manu
Brevis a natura nobis vita data est: at memoria bene redditæ vitæ est sempiterna
Brevis esse laboro, obscurus fio
Brevis ipsa vita est, sed longior malis
Brevis voluptas mox doloris est parens
Brevity is the body and soul of wit.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Bric-à-brac
Bricht ein Ring, so bricht die ganze Katte
Brief as the lightning in the collied night, /
That, in a spleen, unfolds both heaven and earth, / And ere a man hath power to say, "Behold!" / The jaws of darkness do devour it up.
Briefe gehören unter die wichtigsten Denkmäler die der einzelne Mensch hinterlassen kann
Briller par son absence
Bring down my grey hairs with sorrow to the grave.
Bring forth men-children only! / For thy undaunted mettle should compose / Nothing but males.
Broad thongs may be cut from other people's
leather.
Broken friendships may be sowthered (soldered), but never sound.
Brouille sera à la maison si la quenouille est maîtresse
Brûler la chandelle par les deux bouts
Brute force holds communities together as an iron nail, if a little rusted with age, binds pieces of wood; but intelligence binds like a screw, which must be gently turned, not driven.
Brutum fulmen
Brutus, thou sleep'st; awake, and see thyself.
Brutus will start a spirit as soon as Cæsar.
Bûche tortue fait bon feu
Buen siglo haya quien dijó bolta
Buey viejo sulco derecho
Buffoonery is often want of wit.
Bullies are generally cowards.
Buon cavallo non ha bisogno di sproni
Burlaos con el loco en casa, burlará con vos en la plaza
Burnt bairns dread the fire.
Business dispatched is business well done, but business hurried is business ill done.
Busy readers are seldom good readers.
But a bold peasantry, their country's pride, / When once destroyed, can never be supplied.
But all was false and hollow; though his tongue / Dropp'd manna, and could make the worse appear / The better reason, to perplex and dash / Maturest counsels.
But by bad courses may be understood, / That their events can never fall out good.
But Cristes lore, and his apostles twelve, / He taught, but first he folwed it himselve.
But earthlier happy is the rose distilled, / Than
that which, withering on the virgin thorn, / Grows, lives, and dies in single blessedness.
But evil is wrought by want of thought / As well as want of heart.
But facts are chiels that winna ding, / An' douna be disputed.
But far more numerous was the herd of such / Who think too little and who talk too much.
But for women, our life would be without help at the outset, without pleasure in its course, and without consolation at the end.
But from the heart of Nature rolled / The burdens
of the Bible old.
But human bodies are sic fools, / For a' their colleges and schools, / That, when nae real ills perplex them, / They make enow themsels to vex them.
But hushed be every thought that springs / From out the bitterness of things.
But I am constant as the northern star, / Of whose true-fixed and resting quality, / There is no fellow in the firmament.
But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve / For daws to peck at.
But man, proud man, / Drest in a little brief
authority, / Most ignorant of what he's most assured, / His glassy essence,--like an angry ape, / Plays such fantastic tricks before high Heaven / As make the angels weep.
But men may construe things after their fashion, clean from the purpose of the things themselves.
But men must work, and women must weep, / Though storms be sudden and waters deep, / And the harbour bar be moaning.
But mercy is above this sceptred sway; / It is enthroned in the hearts of kings, / It is an attribute to God Himself, / And earthly power doth then show likest God's / When mercy seasons justice.
But now our fates from unmomentous things / May rise like rivers out of little springs.
But O for the touch of a vanish'd hand, / And
the sound of a voice that is still.
But O what damned minutes tells he o'er, / Who dotes, yet doubts; suspects, yet strongly loves?
But pleasures are like poppies spread, / You seize the flower, its bloom is shed; / Or, like the snowfall on the river, / A moment white--then melts for ever.
But Shakespeare's magic could not copied be; / Within that circle none durst walk but he.
But shapes that come not at an earthly call, / Will not depart when mortal voices bid.
But souls that of His own good life partake, /
He loves as His own self; dear as His eye / They are to Him; He'll never them forsake; / When they shall die, then God Himself shall die: / They live, they live in blest eternity.
But spite of all the criticising elves, / Those that would make us feel, must feel themselves.
But there are wanderers o'er eternity, / Whose bark drives on and on, and anchor'd ne'er shall be.
But there's nothing half so sweet in life / As love's young dream.
But thought's the slave of life, and life time's fool; / And time, that takes survey of all the world, / Must have a stop.
But to see her was to love her--love but her,
and love for ever.
But truths on which depend our main concern, / That 'tis our shame and misery not to learn, / Shine by the side of every path we tread, / With such a lustre, he that runs may read.
But war's a game which, were their subjects wise, / Kings would not play at.
But were I Brutus, / And Brutus Antony, there were an Antony / Would ruffle up your spirits, and put a tongue / In every wound of Cæsar, that should move / The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny.
But what fate does, let fate answer for.
But whether on the scaffold high, / Or in the
battle's van, / The fittest place where man can die / Is where he dies for man.
But who would force the soul, tilts with a straw / Against a champion cased in adamant.
But winter lingering chills the lap of May.
But words are things, and a small drop of ink, / Falling, like dew, upon a thought, produces / That which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think.
But wouldst thou know what's heaven? I'll tell thee what: / Think what thou canst not think, and heaven is that.
But yesterday the word of Cæsar might /
Have stood against the world; now lies he there, / And none so poor to do him reverence.
Buying is cheaper than asking.
Buy the truth, and sell it not.
Buy what ye dinna want, an' ye'll sell what ye canna spare.
By-and-by is easily said.
By any ballot-box, Jesus Christ goes just as
far as Judas Iscariot.
By blood a king, in heart a clown.
By bravely enduring it, an evil which cannot be avoided is overcome.
By desiring little, a poor man makes himself rich.
By dint of dining out, I run the risk of dying by starvation at home.
By doing nothing we learn to do ill.
By education most have been misled.
By experience we find out a short way by a
long wandering.
By nature man hates change; seldom will he quit his old home till it has actually fallen about his ears.
By night an atheist half believes a God.
By nothing do men more show what they are than by their appreciation of what is and what is not ridiculous.
By others' faults wise men correct their own.
By persisting in your path, though you forfeit
the little, you gain the great.
By pious heroic climbing of our own, not by arguing with our poor neighbours, wandering to right and left, do we at length reach the sanctuary--the victorious summit, and see with our own eyes.
By pride cometh contention.
By robbing Peter he paid Paul ... and hoped to catch larks if ever the heavens should fall.
By seeking and blundering we learn.
By shallow rivers to whose falls / Melodious
birds sing madrigals.
By sports like these are all their cares beguil'd, / The sports of children satisfy the child.
By strength of heart the sailor fights with roaring seas.
By the long practice of caricature I have lost the enjoyment of beauty: I never see a face but distorted.
By three methods we may learn wisdom: first, by reflection, which is the noblest; second, by imitation, which is the easiest; and third, by experience, which is the bitterest.
By time and counsel do the best we can: /
Th' event is never in the power of man.
Ca' (drive) a cow to the ha' (hall), and she'll rin to the byre.
Cabin'd, cribb'd, confin'd.
Cacoëthes carpendi
Cacoëthes scribendi
Cacoëthes loquendi
Cada cousa a seu tempo
Cada qual en seu officio
Cada qual hablé en lo que sabe
Cada uno es hijo de sus obras
Cadenti porrigo dextram
Cadit quæstio
Cæca invidia est, nec quidquam aliud scit quam detrectare virtutes
Cæca regens vestigia filo
Cæsarem vehis, Cæsarisque fortunam
Cæsar non supra grammaticos
Cæsar's wife should be above suspicion.
Cæteris major qui melior
Cahier des charges
Ça ira
Caisse d'amortissement
Calamitosus est animus futuri anxius
Calamity is man's true touchstone
Calf love, half love; old love, cold love.
Call a spade a spade.
Call him wise whose actions, words, and steps
are all a clear Because to a clear Why.
Callida junctura
Call me what instrument you will, though you fret me, you cannot play on me.
Call not that man wretched who, whatever ills he suffers, has a child he loves.
Call not the devil; he will come fast enough without.
Call your opinions your creed, and you will
change it every week. Make your creed simply and broadly out of the revelation of God, and you may keep it to the end.
Calmness of will is a sign of grandeur. The vulgar, far from hiding their will, blab their wishes. A single spark of occasion discharges the child of passions into a thousand crackers of desire.
Calumnies are sparks which, if you do not blow them, will go out of themselves.
Calumny is like the wasp which worries you; which it were best not to try to get rid of, unless you are sure of slaying it, for otherwise it will return to the charge more furious than ever.
Calumny will sear / Virtue itself: these shrugs, these hums and ha's.
Camelus desiderans cornua etiam aures perdidit
Campos ubi Troja fuit
Campus Martius
Canaille
Canam mihi et Musis
"Can" and "shall," well understood, mean the same thing under this sun of ours.
Can anybody remember when the times were not hard and money not scarce? or when sensible men, and the right sort of men, and the right sort of women, were plentiful?
Can ch' abbaia non morde
Can che morde non abbaia in vano
Can despots compass aught that hails their
sway? / Or call with truth one span of earth their own, / Save that wherein at last they crumble bone by bone?
Candida pax homines, trux decet ira feras
Candide et caute
Candide et constanter
Candide secure
Candidus in nauta turpis color: æquoris unda /
Debet et a radiis sideris esse niger
"Can do" is easy (easily) carried aboot.
Candor dat viribus alas
Candour is the brightest gem of criticism.
Canes timidi vehementius latrant quam mordent
Cane vecchio non abbaia indarno
Can I choose my king? I can choose my King Popinjay, and play what farce or tragedy I may with him; but he who is to be my ruler, whose will is higher than my will, was chosen for me in heaven.
Canina facundia
Canis a non canendo
Canis in præsepi
Cannon and firearms are cruel and damnable
machines. I believe them to have been the direct suggestion of the devil.
Can storied urn or animated bust / Back to its mansion call the fleeting breath? / Can honour's voice provoke the silent dust, / Or flattery soothe the dull cold ear of death?
Canst thou not minister to a mind diseas'd, / Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow, / Raze out the written troubles of the brain? / And with some sweet oblivious antidote, / Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff / Which weighs upon the heart?
Can such things be, / And overcome us like a summer's cloud, / Without our special wonder?
Cantabit vacuus coram latrone viator
Can that which is the greatest virtue in philosophy,
doubt, be in religion, what we priests term it, the greatest of sins?
Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots?
Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth?
Cantilenam eandem canis
Cant is properly a double-distilled lie, the second power of a lie.
Cant is the voluntary overcharging or prolonging
of a real sentiment.
Can wealth give happiness? look around and see, / What gay distress! what splendid misery! / Whatever fortunes lavishly can pour, / The mind annihilates and calls for more.
Can we wonder that men perish and are forgotten, when their noblest and most enduring works decay?
"Can you tell a plain man the plain road to heaven?"--"Surely. Turn at once to the right, then go straight forward."
Caõ que muito ladra, nunca bom para a caça
Capable of all kinds of devotion, and of all
kinds of treason, raised to the second power, woman is at once the delight and the terror of man.
Capacity without education is deplorable, and education without capacity is thrown away.
Cap-à-pié
Capias
Capias ad respondendum
Capias ad satisfaciendum
Capiat, qui capere possit
Capistrum maritale
Capitis nives
Capo grasso, cervello magro
Captivity is the greatest of all evils that can
befall man.
Captivity, / That comes with honour, is true liberty.
Captum te nidore suæ putat ille culinæ
Caput artis est, decere quod facias
Caput inter nubila condit
Caput mortuum
Caput mundi
Cara al mio cuor tu sei, / Ciò ch'è il sole agli occhi miei
Care, and not fine stables, makes a good horse.
Care is no cure, but rather a corrosive, / For things that are not to be remedied.
Care is taken that trees do not grow into the sky.
Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye, / And where care lodges, sleep will never lie.
Care killed the cat.
Carelessness is worse than theft.
Careless their merits or their faults to scan, / His pity gave ere charity began.
Care's an enemy to life.
Cares are often more difficult to throw off than sorrows; the latter die with time, the former grow with it.
Care that has enter'd once into the breast, /
Will have the whole possession ere it rest.
Caret
Caret initio et fine
Caret periculo, qui etiam cum est tutus cavet
Care to our coffin adds a nail, no doubt, / And every grin, so merry, draws one out.
Care will kill a cat, but ye canna live without
it.
Carica volontario non carica
Car il n'est si beau jour qui n'amène sa nuit
Carior est illis homo quam sibi
Cari sunt parentes, cari liberi, propinqui, familiares; sed omnes omnium caritates, patria una complexa est
Carmen perpetuum primaque origine mundi
ad tempora nostra
Carmen triumphale
Carmina nil prosunt; nocuerunt carmina quondam
Carmina spreta exolescunt; si irascare, agnita videntur
Carmine di superi placantur, carmine Manes
Carmine fit vivax virtus; expersque sepulcri,
notitiam seræ posteritatis habet
Carpet knights.
Carpe diem
Carry on every enterprise as if all depended on the success of it.
Carte blanche
Car tel est votre plaisir
Casa hospidada, comida y denostada
Casa mia, casa mia, per piccina che tu sia, tu mi sembri una badia
Casar, casar, e que do governo?
Casar, casar, soa bem, e sabe mal
Cassis tutissima virtus
Casta ad virum matrona parendo imperat
Casta moribus et integra pudore
Cast all your cares on God; that anchor holds.
Cast forth thy act, thy word, into the ever-living, ever-working universe. It is a seed-grain that cannot die; unnoticed to-day, it will be found flourishing as a banyan-grove, perhaps, alas! as a hemlock forest, after a thousand years.
Cast him (a lucky fellow) into the Nile, and he
will come up with a fish in his mouth.
Castles in the air cost a vast deal to keep up.
Castor gaudet equis, ovo prognatus eodem / Pugnis
Castrant alios, ut libros suos, per se graciles, alieno adipe suffarciant
Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days.
Cast thy bread upon the waters; God will
know of it, if the fishes do not.
Casus belli
Casus quem sæpe transit, aliquando invenit
Casus ubique valet; semper tibi pendeat hamus. / Quo minimè credas gurgite, piscis erit
Catalogue raisonné
Catch as catch can.
Catching a Tartar
Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance.
Catch, then, O catch the transient hour; / Improve each moment as it flies; / Life's a short summer--man a flower--/ He dies--alas! how soon he dies!
Catholicism commonly softens, while Protestantism strengthens, the character; but the softness of the one often degenerates into weakness, and the strength of the other into hardness.
Cato contra mundum
Cato esse, quam videri, bonus malebat
Cattiva è quella lana, che non si può tingere
Cattivo è quel sacco che non si puo rappezzare
Cattle go blindfold to the common to crop the wholesome herbs, but man learns to distinguish what is wholesome (Heil) and what is poisonous (Gift) only by experience.
Catus amat pisces, sed non vult tingere plantas
Causa causans
Causa latet, vis est notissima
Causa sine qua non
Cause and effect are two sides of one fact.
Cause and effect, means and end, seed and fruit, cannot be severed; for the effect already blooms in the cause, the end preexists in the means, the fruit in the seed.
Cause célèbre
Caute, non astute
Caution is the parent of safety.
Cautious age suspects the flattering form, and only credits what experience tells.
Cautis pericla prodesse aliorum solent
Cautus enim metuit foveam lupus, accipiterque / Suspectos laqueos, et opertum miluus hamum
Cavallo ingrassato tira calci
Cave ab homine unius libri
Caveat actor
Caveat emptor
Cave canem
Cavendo tutus
Cave paratus
Caviare to the general.
Cease, every joy, to glimmer in my mind, / But leave,--oh! leave the light of hope behind! / What though my winged hours of bliss have been, / Like angel-visits, few and far between?
Cease to lament for that thou canst not help, / And study help for that which thou lament'st.
Cedant arma togæ
Cedant carminibus reges, regumque triumphi
Cedat amor rebus; res age, tutus eris
Cede Deo
Cede nullis
Cede repugnanti; cedendo victor abibis
Cedite, Romani scriptores; cedite, Graii
Cedunt grammatici; vincuntur rhetores; / Turba tacet
Cela fera comme un coup d'épée dans l'eau
Cela m'échauffe la bile
Cela n'est pas de mon ressort
Cela saute aux yeux
Cela va sans dire
Cela viendra
 _wh
Celebrity is but the candle-light which will a better or other man.
Celebrity is the advantage of being known to people whom we don't know, and who don't know us.
Celebrity is the chastisement of merit and the
punishment of talent.
Celer et audax
Celer et fidelis
Celerity is never more admired / Than by the negligent.
Celsæ graviore casu / Decidunt turres
Celui est homme de bien qui est homme de
biens
Celui-là est le mieux servi, qui n'a pas besoin de mettre les mains des autres au bout de ses bras
Celui qui a grand sens sait beaucoup
Celui qui aime mieux ses trésors que ses amis, mérite de n'être aimé de personne
Celui qui dévore la substance du pauvre, y trouve à la fin un os qui l'étrangle
Celui qui est sur épaules d'un géant voit plus
loin que celui qui le porte
Celui qui veut, celui-là peut
Ce ne sont pas les plus belles qui font les grandes passions
Ce n'est pas être bien aisé que de rire
Ce n'est que le premier pas qui coûte
Censor morum
Censure is the tax a man pays to the public for being eminent.
Cent ans n'est guère, mais jamais c'est beaucoup
Cento carri di pensieri, non pagaranno un' oncia di debito
Cent 'ore di malinconia non pagano un quattrino di' debito
Centum doctûm hominum consilia sola hæc devincit dea / Fortuna
Ce que femme veut, Dieu le veut
Ce qui fait qu'on n'est pas content de sa condition,
c'est l'idée chimérique qu'on forme du bonheur d'autrui
Ce qu'il nous faut pour vaincre, c'est de l'audace, encore de l'audace, toujours de l'audace!
Ce qui manque aux orateurs en profondeur, / Ils vous le donnent en longueur
Ce qui ne vaut pas la peine d'être dit, on le chante
Ce qui suffit ne fut jamais peu
Ce qui vient de la flûte, s'en retourne au tambour
Ce qu'on apprend au berceau dure jusqu'au tombeau
Ce qu'on fait maintenant, on le dit; et la cause en est bien excusable: on fait si peu de chose
Cercato ho sempre solitaria vita / (Le rive il sanno, e le campagne e i boschi)
Ceremonies are different in every country; but true politeness is everywhere the same.
Ceremony is necessary as the outwork and
defence of manners.
Ceremony is the invention of wise men to keep fools at a distance.
Ceremony keeps up all things; 'tis like a penny glass to a rich spirit or some excellent water; without it the water were spilt, the spirit lost.
Ceremony leads her bigots forth, / Prepared to fight for shadows of no worth; / While truths, on which eternal things depend, / Find not, or hardly find, a single friend.
Ceremony was but devised at first / To set a gloss on faint deeds ... / But where there is true friendship, there needs none.
Cereus in vitium flecti, monitoribus asper
Cernit omnia Deus vindex
Certa amittimus dum incerta petimus
Certain defects are necessary to the existence of the individual. It would be painful to us if our old friends laid aside certain peculiarities.
Certain it is that there is no kind of affection so purely angelic as that of a father to a daughter. In love to our wives there is desire; to our sons, ambition; but to our daughters there is something which there are no words to express.
Certe ignoratio futurorum malorum utilius est
quam scientia
Certiorari
Certum est quia impossibile est
Certum pete finem
Cervantes smiled Spain's chivalry away.
Ces discours sont fort beaux dans un livre
Ces malheureux rois / Dont on dit tant de mal, ont du bon quelquefois
Ce sont les passions qui font et qui défont tout
Ce sont toujours les aventuriers qui font de grandes choses, et non pas les souverains des grandes empires
Cessante causa, cessat et effectus
Cessio bonorum
C'est-à-dire
C'est dans les grands dangers qu'on voit les grands courages
C'est double plaisir de tromper le trompeur
C'est fait de lui
C'est la grande formule moderne: Du travail,
toujours du travail, et encore du travail
C'est là le diable
C'est la prospérité qui donne des amis, c'est l'adversité qui les éprouve
C'est le chemin des passions qui m'a conduit à la philosophie
C'est le commencement de la fin
C'est le crime qui fait honte, et non pas l'échafaud
C'est le gesi paré des plumes du paon
C'est le ton qui fait la musique
C'est le valet du diable, il fait plus qu'on ne lui ordonne
C'est l'imagination qui gouverne le genre humain
C'est partout comme chez nous
C'est peu que de courir; il faut partir à point
C'est plus qu'un crime, c'est une faute
C'est posséder les biens que de savoir s'en passer
C'est son cheval de bataille
C'est trop aimer quand on en meurt
C'est une autre chose
C'est une grande folie de vouloir être sage tout seul
C'est une grande misère que de n'avoir pas assez d'esprit pour bien parler, ni assez de jugement pour se taire
C'est un zéro en chiffres
Cet animal est très méchant: / Quand on l'attaque, il se défend
Ceteris paribus
Ceterum censeo
Cet homme va à bride abattue
Ceux qui parlent beaucoup, ne disent jamais rien
Ceux qui s'appliquent trop aux petites choses deviennent ordinairement incapables des grandes
Chacun à sa marotte
Chacun à son goût
Chacun à son métier, et les vaches seront bien gardées
Chacun cherche son semblable
Chacun dit du bien de son cœur et personne n'en ose dire de son esprit
Chacun doit balayer devant sa propre porte
Chacun en particulier peut tromper et être trompé; personne n'a trompé tout le monde, et tout le monde n'a trompé personne
Chacun n'est pas aise qui danse
Chacun porte sa croix
Chacun pour soi et Dieu pour tous
Chacun tire l'eau à son moulin
Chacun vaut son prix
Chance corrects us of many faults that reason would not know how to correct.
Chance generally favours the prudent.
Chance is but the pseudonym of God for those
particular cases which He does not choose to subscribe openly with His own sign-manual.
Chance is the providence of adventurers.
Chance will not do the work: / Chance sends the breeze, / But if the pilot slumber at the helm, / The very wind that wafts us towards the port / May dash us on the shelves.
Chances, as they are now called, I regard as guidances, and even, if rightly understood, commands, which, as far as I have read history, the best and sincerest men think providential.
Change is inevitable in a progressive country--is constant.
Change of fashions is the tax which industry
imposes on the vanity of the rich.
Changes are lightsome, an' fules are fond o' them.
Change yourself, and your fortune will change too.
Chansons-à-boire
Chapeau bas
Chapelle ardente
Chapter of accidents.
Chaque âge a ses plaisirs, son esprit, et ses mœurs
Chaque branche de nos connaissances passe successivement par trois états théoretiques différents: l'état théologique, ou fictif; l'état métaphysique, ou abstrait; l'état scientifique, ou positif
Chaque demain apporte son pain
Chaque instant de la vie est un pas vers la mort
Chaque médaille a son revers
Chaque potier vante sa pot
Char-à-bancs
Character gives splendour to youth, and awe to wrinkled skin and grey hairs.
Character is a fact, and that is much in a world of pretence and concession.
Character is a perfectly educated will.
Character is a reserved force which acts directly by presence and without means.
Character is a thing that will take care of
itself.
Character is centrality, the impossibility of being displaced or overset.
Character is higher than intellect. Thinking is the function; living is the functionary.
Character is impulse reined down into steady continuance.
Character is the result of a system of stereotyped principles.
Character is the spiritual body of the person,
and represents the individualisation of vital experience, the conversion of unconscious things into self-conscious men.
Character is victory organised.
Character is what Nature has engraven on us; can we then efface it?
Characters are developed, and never change.
Character teaches over our head, above our wills.
Character wants room; must not be crowded
on by persons, nor be judged of from glimpses got in the press of affairs or a few occasions.
Charbonnier est maître chez soi
Charge, Chester, charge! On, Stanley, on! / Were the last words of Marmion.
Chargé d'affaires
Charity begins at hame, but shouldna end there.
Charity begins at home.
Charity draws down a blessing on the charitable.
Charity gives itself rich; covetousness hoards itself poor.
Charity is the scope of all God's commands.
Charity is the temple of which justice is the foundation, but you can't have the top without the bottom.
Charity shall cover the multitude of sins.
Charm'd with the foolish whistling of a name.
Charms strike the sight, but merit wins the soul.
Charms which, like flowers, lie on the surface and always glitter, easily produce vanity; whereas other excellences, which lie deep like gold and are discovered with difficulty, leave their possessors modest and proud.
Charta non erubescit
Chasse cousin
Chassez le naturel, il revient au galop
Chaste as the icicle / That's curded by the frost from purest snow, / And hangs on Dian's temple.
Chastise the good, and he will grow better; chastise the bad, and he will grow worse.
Chastity is like an icicle; if it once melts, that's the last of it.
Chastity is the band that holds together the
sheaf of all holy affections and duties.
Chastity, lost once, cannot be recalled; it goes only once.
Châteaux en Espagne.
Chat échaudé craint l'eau froide
Cheapest is the dearest.
Che dorme coi cani, si leva colle pulci
Cheerfulness is health; the opposite, melancholy, is disease.
Cheerfulness is just as natural to the heart of a man in strong health as colour to his cheek.
Cheerfulness is the best promoter of health, and is as friendly to the mind as to the body.
Cheerfulness is the daughter of employment.
Cheerfulness is the heaven under which everything
but poison thrives.
Cheerfulness is the very flower of health.
Cheerfulness opens, like spring, all the blossoms of the inward man.
Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at mid-day, and lead at night.
Chef de cuisine
Chef-d'œuvre
Chemin de fer
Che ne può la gatta se la massaia è matta
Che quegli è tra gli stolti bene abbasso, / Che senza distinzion afferma o niega, / Così nell' un, come nell' altro passo
Chercher à connaître, c'est chercher à douter
Che sarà, sarà
Chevalier d'industrie
Chevaux de frise
Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy.
Chew the cud of politics.
Chi altri giudica, sè condanna
Chi ama, crede
Chi ama, qual chi muore / Non ha da gire al ciel dal mondo altr' ale
Chi ama, teme
Chi asino è, e cervo esser si crede, al saltar del fosso se n'avvede
Chi compra ciò pagar non può, vende ciò che non vuole
Chi compra ha bisogno di cent occhi
Chi compra terra, compra guerra
Chi con l'occhio vede, di cuor crede
Chi da il suo inanzi morire s'apparecchia assai patire
Chi dinanzi mi pinge, di dietro mi tinge
Chi due padroni ha da servire, ad uno ha da
mentire
Chi é causa del suo mal, pianga se stesso
Chi edifica, sua borsa purifica
Chien sur son fumier est hardi
Chi erra nelle decine, erra nelle migliaja
Chiesa libera in libero stato
Chi fa il conto senza l'oste, gli convien farlo due volte
Chi fa quel ch' e' può, non fa mal bene
Chi ha capo di cera non vada al sole
Chi ha danari da buttar via, metta gli operaj, e non vi stia
Chi ha denti, non ha pane; e chi ha pane, non
ha denti
Chi ha, è
Chi ha l'amor nel petto, ha lo sprone a' fianchi
Chi ha lingua in bocca, può andar per tutto
Chi ha paura del diavolo, non fa roba
Chi ha sanità è ricco, e non lo sa
Chi ha sospetto, di rado è in difetto
Chi ha tempo, non aspetti tempo
Childhood and youth see all the world in persons.
Childhood has no forebodings; but then it is soothed by no memories of outlived sorrow.
Childhood is the sleep of reason.
Childhood itself is scarcely more lovely than a cheerful, kindly, sunshiny old age.
Childhood often holds a truth in its feeble fingers which the grasp of manhood cannot retain, and which it is the pride of utmost age to recover.
Childhood shows the man, as morning shows the day.
Childhood, who like an April morn appears, / Sunshine and rain, hopes clouded o'er with fears.
Children always turn toward the light.
Children and chickens are always a-picking.
Children and drunk people speak the truth.
Children and fools speak the truth.
Children are certain sorrows, but uncertain joys.
Children are the poor man's wealth.
Children are very nice observers, and they will often perceive your slightest defects.
Children blessings seem, but torments are, / When young, our folly, and when old, our fear.
Children generally hate to be idle; all the care is then that their busy humour should be constantly employed in something of use to them.
Children have more need of models than of critics.
Children have scarcely any other fear than
that produced by strangeness.
Children, like dogs, have so sharp and fine a scent, that they detect and hunt out everything--the bad before all the rest.
Children of night, of indigestion bred.
Children of wealth or want, to each is given / One spot of green, and all the blue of heaven.
Children see in their parents the past, they again in their children the future; and if we find more love in parents for their children than in children for their parents, this is sad indeed, but natural. Who does not fondle his hopes more than his recollections?
Children should have their times of being off
duty, like soldiers.
Children should laugh, but not mock; and when they laugh, it should not be at the weaknesses and the faults of others.
Children suck the mother when they are young, and the father when they are old.
Children sweeten labours, but they make misfortunes more bitter.
Children tell in the highway what they hear by the fireside.
Children think not of what is past, nor what is to come, but enjoy the present time, which few of us do.
Chi lingua ha, a Roma va
Chi nasce bella, nasce maritata
Chi niente sa, di niente dubita
Chi non dà fine al pensare, non dà principio al fare
Chi non ha cuore, abbia gambe
Chi non ha, non è
Chi non ha piaghe, se ne fa
Chi non ha testa, abbia gambe
Chi non istima vien stimato
Chi non puo fare come voglia, faccia come puo
Chi non sa fingere, non sa vivere
Chi non vede il fondo, non passi l'acqua
Chi non vuol servir ad un sol signor, a molto ha da servir
Chi offende, non perdona mai
Chi offende scrive nella rena, chi è offeso nel marmo
Chi parla semina, chi tace raccoglie
Chi piglia leone in assenza suol temer del topi in presenza
Chi più sa, meno crede
Chi più sa, meno parla
Chi sa la strada, puo andar di trotto
Chi sa poco presto lo dice
Chi serve al commune serve nessuno
Chi si affoga, s'attaccherebbe a' rasoj
Chi si fa fango, il porco lo calpestra
Chi si trova senz' amici, è come un corpo senz' anima
Chi sta bene, non si muova
Chi tace confessa
Chi t'ha offeso non ti perdonera mai
Chi troppo abbraccia nulla stringe
Chi tutto vuole, tutto perde
Chivalry was founded invariably by knights
who were content all their lives with their horse and armour and daily bread.
Chi va piano, va sano, chi va sano va lontano
Chi va, vuole; chi manda, non se ha cura
Chi vuol dell' acqua chiara, vada alla fonte
Chi vuol esser mal servito tenga assai famiglia
Chi vuol il lavoro mal fatto, paghi innanzi
tratto
Chi vuol presto e ben, faccia da se
Choose a good mother's daughter, though her father were the devil.
Choose always the way that seems the best, however rough it may be. Custom will render it easy and agreeable.
Choose an author as you choose a friend.
Choose thy speech.
Choose your wife as you wish your children to be.
Chords that vibrate sweetest pleasure / Thrill the deepest notes of woe.
Chose perdue, chose connue
Christen haben keine Nachbarn
Christianity has not yet penetrated into the whole heart of Jesus.
Christianity appeals to the noblest feelings of the human heart, and these are emotion and imagination.
Christianity has a might of its own; it is raised above all philosophy, and needs no support therefrom.
Christianity has made martyrdom sublime and sorrow triumphant.
Christianity is a religion that can make men
good, only if they are good already.
Christianity is salvation by the conversion of the will; humanism by the enlightenment of the mind.
Christianity is the apotheosis of grief, the marvellous transmutation of suffering into triumph, the death of death and the defeat of sin.
Christianity is the practical demonstration that holiness and pity, justice and mercy, may meet together and become one in man and in God.
Christianity is the root of all democracy, the highest fact in the rights of men.
Christianity is the worship of sorrow.
Christianity's husk and shell / Threaten its heart like a blight.
Christianity teaches us to love our neighbour.
Modern society acknowledges no neighbour.
Christianity, which is always true to the heart, knows no abstract virtues, but virtues resulting from our wants, and useful to all.
Christianity without the cross is nothing.
Christians have burnt each other, quite persuaded / That all the apostles would have done as they did.
Christ is not valued at all, unless He is valued above all.
Christ left us not a system of logic, but a few
simple truths.
Christmas comes but once a year.
Christ never wrote a tract, but He went about doing good.
Christ's truth itself may yet be taught / With something of the devil's spirit.
Churches are not built on Christ's principles, but on His tropes.
Ci-devant
Cieco è l'occhio, se l'animo è distratto
Ciencia es locura si buen senso no la cura
Ci-git
Cineri gloria sera venit
Ciò che Dio vuole, io voglio
Ciò che si usa, non ha bisogno di scusa
Circles are prais'd, not that abound / In largeness, but th' exactly round; / So life we praise, that does excel, / Not in much time, but acting well.
Circles in water as they wider flow, / The less conspicuous in their progress grow, / And when at last they trench upon the shore, / Distinction ceases, and they're view'd no more.
Circles to square, and cubes to double, / Would give a man excessive trouble.
Circuitus verborum
Circulus in probando
Circumstances are beyond the control of man, but his conduct is in his own power.
Circumstances are things round about; we are in them, not under them.
Circumstances form the character, but, like petrifying matters, they harden while they form.
Circumstances? I make circumstances.
Cita mors ruit
Citharœdus / Ridetur chorda qui semper obberrat eadem
Cities force growth, and make men talkative and entertaining, but they make them artificial.
Cities give not the human senses room enough.
Cities have always been the fire-places
of civilisation, whence light and heat radiated out into the dark, cold world.
Citius venit periculum cum contemnitur
Civil dissension is a viperous worm / That gnaws the bowels of the commonwealth.
Civilisation degrades the many to exalt the few.
Civilisation depends on morality.
Civilisation is the result of highly complex
organisation.
Civilisation means the recession of passional and material life, and the development of social and moral life.
Civilisation tends to corrupt men, as large towns vitiate the air.
Civility costs nothing, and buys everything.
Clamorous labour knocks with its hundred hands at the golden gate of the morning.
Claqueur
Clarior e tenebris
Clarum et venerabile nomen
Classical quotation is the parole of literary men all over the world.
Classisch ist das Gesunde, romantisch das Kranke
Claude os, aperi oculos
Claudite jam rivos, pueri; sat prata biberunt
Clausum fregit
Clay and clay differs in dignity, / Whose dust is both alike.
Cleanliness is near of kin to godliness.
Clear and bright it should be ever, / Flowing
like a crystal river; / Bright as light, and clear as wind.
Clear conception leads naturally to clear and correct expression.
Clear writers, like clear fountains, do not seem so deep as they are; the turbid look the most profound.
Clear your mind of cant.
Clemency alone makes us equal with the gods.
Clemency is one of the brightest diamonds in
the crown of majesty.
Cleverness is serviceable for everything, sufficient for nothing.
Clever people will recognise and tolerate nothing but cleverness.
Climbing is performed in the same posture as creeping.
Clocks will go as they are set; but man, irregular man, is never constant, never certain.
Close sits my shirt, but closer sits my skin.
Clothes are for necessity; warm clothes, for health; cleanly, for decency; lasting, for thrift; and rich, for magnificence.
Clothes have made men of us; they are threatening to make clothes-screens of us.
Clothes make the man.
Clouds are the veil behind which the face of day coquettishly hides itself, to enhance its beauty.
Coal is a portable climate.
Cobblers go to mass and pray that the cows may die
Cobra buena fama, y échate á dormir
Cobre gana cobre que no huesos de hombre
Cœlitus mihi vires
Cœlo tegitur qui non habet urnam
Cœlum ipsum petimus stultitia
Cœlum non animum mutant qui trans mare currunt
Coerced innocence is like an imprisoned lark; open the door, and it is off for ever.
Cogenda mens est ut incipiat
Cogi qui potest nescit mori
Cogitatio nostra cœli munimenta perrumpit, nec contenta est, id, quod ostenditur, scire
Cogito, ergo sum
Cognovit actionem
Coigne of vantage.
Coin heaven's image / In stamps that are forbid.
Cold hand, warm heart.
Cold pudding settles one's love.
Collision is as necessary to produce virtue in men, as it is to elicit fire in inanimate matter; and chivalry is the essence of virtue.
Colonies don't cease to be colonies because they are independent.
Colour answers to feeling in man; shape, to
thought; motion, to will.
Colour blindness, which may mistake drab for scarlet, is better than total blindness, which sees no distinction of colour at all.
Colour is the type of love. Hence it is especially connected with the blossoming of the earth, and with its fruits; also with the spring and fall of the leaf, and with the morning and evening of the day, in order to show the waiting of love about the birth and death of man.
Colours are the smiles of Nature ... her laughs, as in the flowers.
Colubram in sinu fovere
Columbus discovered no isle or key so lonely
as himself.
Combien de héros, glorieux, magnanimes, ont vécu trop d'un jour
Combinations of wickedness would overwhelm the world, did not those who have long practised perfidy grow faithless to each other.
Come, and trip it as you go, / On the light fantastic toe.
Come, civil night, / Thou sober-suited matron, all in black.
Come, cordial, not poison.
Comedians are not actors; they are only imitators of actors.
Come è duro calle
Come, fair Repentance, daughter of the skies! / Soft harbinger of soon returning virtue; / The weeping messenger of grace from heaven.
Come forth into the light of things, / Let Nature be your teacher.
Come he slow or come he fast, / It is but
Death who comes at last.
Come like shadows, so depart.
Come, my best friends, my books, and lead me on.
Come one, come all! this rock shall fly / From its firm base as soon as I.
Comes jucundus in via pro vehiculo est
Come the three corners of the world in arms, /
And we shall shock them. Nought shall make us rue, / If England to itself do rest but true.
Come, we burn daylight.
Come what come may, / Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
Come what sorrow can, / It cannot countervail th' exchange of joy / That one short minute gives me in her sight.
Comfort is the god of this world, but comfort it will never obtain by making it an object.
Comfort's in heaven; and we are on the earth, /
Where nothing lives but crosses, care, and grief.
Coming events cast their shadows before.
Comitas inter gentes
Command large fields, but cultivate small ones.
Comme il faut
Comme je fus
Comme je trouve
Commend a fool for his wit or a knave for his honesty, and he will receive you into his bosom.
Commend me rather to him who goes wrong in a way that is his own, than to him who walks correctly in a way that is not.
Commerce changes the fate and genius of nations.
Commerce flourishes by circumstances, precarious, contingent, transitory, almost as liable to change as the winds and waves that waft it to our shores.
Commerce has set the mark of selfishness, the
signet of all-enslaving power, upon a shining ore and called it gold.
Commerce is a game of skill, which every one cannot play, which few men can play well.
Commerce is one of the daughters of Fortune, inconstant and deceitful as her mother. She chooses her residence where she is least expected, and shifts her abode when her continuance is, in appearance, most firmly settled.
Commit a crime, and the earth is made of glass.
Committunt multi eadem diverso crimina fato, / Ille crucem sceleris pretium tulerit, hic diadema
Common as light is love, / And its familiar
voice wearies not ever.
Common chances common men can bear.
Common distress is a great promoter both of friendship and speculation.
Common fame is seldom to blame.
Commonly they use their feet for defence whose tongue is their weapon.
Common men are apologies for men; they
bow the head, excuse themselves with prolix reasons, and accumulate appearances, because the substance is not.
Common-place people see no difference between one man and another.
Common-sense is calculation applied to life.
Common-sense is the average sensibility and intelligence of men undisturbed by individual peculiarities.
Common-sense is the genius of humanity.
Common-sense is the measure of the possible;
it is calculation applied to life.
Common souls pay with what they do; nobler souls, with what they are.
Communautés commencent par bâtir leur cuisine
Commune bonum
Commune naufragium omnibus est consolatio
Commune periculum concordiam parit
Communia esse amicorum inter se omnia
Communibus annis
Communi consensu
Communion is the law of growth, and homes only thrive when they sustain relations with each other.
Communism is the exploitation of the strong
by the weak. In communism, inequality springs from placing mediocrity on a level with excellence.
Como canta el abad, así responde el monacillo
Compagnon de voyage
Company, villanous company, has been the spoil of me.
Comparaison n'est pas raison
Compare her face with some that I shall
show, / And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
Comparisons are odious.
Comparisons are odorous.
Compassion to the offender who has grossly violated the laws is, in effect, a cruelty to the peaceable subject who has observed them.
Compassion will cure more sins than condemnation.
Compendia dispendia
Compendiaria res improbitas, virtusque tarda
Compesce mentem
Complaining never so loud, and with never so much reason, is of no use.
Complaining profits little; stating of the truth may profit.
Complaint is the largest tribute heaven receives,
and the sincerest part of our devotion.
Compliments are only lies in court clothes.
Componitur orbis / Regis ad exemplum; nec sic inflectere sensus / Humanos edicta valent, quam vita regentis
Compose thy mind, and prepare thy soul calmly to obey; such offering will be more acceptable to God than every other sacrifice.
Compositum miraculi causa
Compos mentis
Compound for sins they are inclined to / By damning those they have no mind to.
Comprendre c'est pardonner
Compte rendu
Con agua pasada no muele molino
Con amore
Con arte e con inganno si vive mezzo l'anno; con inganno si vive l'altra parte
Conceal not the meanness of thy family, nor think it disgraceful to be descended from peasants; for when it is seen thou art not thyself ashamed, no one will endeavour to make thee so.
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
Conceit may puff a man up, but never prop him up.
Concentration is the secret of strength in politics, in war, in trade, in short, in all the management of human affairs.
Concio ad clerum
Concordia discors
Concordia res parvæ crescunt, discordia maximæ dilabuntur
Concours
Condemnable idolatry is insincere idolatry--a human soul clinging spasmodically to an Ark of the Covenant, which it half feels is now a phantasm.
Condemn the fault, and not the actor of it! /
Why, every fault's condemned ere it be done.
Condense some daily experience into a glowing symbol, and an audience is electrified.
Con dineros no te conocerás, sin dineros no te conocerán
Condition, circumstance, is not the thing, / Bliss is the same in subject or in king.
Conditions are pleasant or grievous to us according to our sensibilities.
Con el Rey y con la Inquisicion, chitos
Confessed faults are half mended.
Confess yourself to Heaven; / Repent what's past; avoid what is to come; / And do not spread the compost on the weeds, / To make them ranker.
Confess you were wrong yesterday; it will show you are wise to-day.
Confidence imparts a wondrous inspiration to its possessor. It bears him on in security, either to meet no danger or to find matter of glorious trial.
Confidence in another man's virtue is no slight
evidence of a man's own.
Confidence in one's self is the chief nurse of magnanimity.
Confidence is a plant of slow growth in an aged bosom.
Confidence is a thing not to be produced by compulsion. Men cannot be forced into trust.
Confido, conquiesco
Confine your tongue, lest it confine you.
Confrère
Confusion now hath made his masterpiece. / Most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope / The Lord's anointed temple, and stole thence / The life o' the building.
Confusion worse confounded.
Congé d'élire
Con poco cervello si governa il mondo
Conquer we shall, but we must first contend; / 'Tis not the fight that crowns us, but the end.
Conscia mens recti famæ mendacia risit
Conscience does make cowards of us all; / And thus the native hue of resolution / Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought; / And enterprises of great pith and moment, / With this regard, their currents turn awry, / And lose the name of action.
Conscience is but a word that cowards use, / Devised at first to keep the strong in awe; / Our strong arms be our conscience, swords our law.
Conscience is our magnetic needle; / reason,
our chart.
Conscience is the chamber of justice.
Conscience is the compass of the unknown.
Conscience is the sentinel of virtue.
Conscience is the voice of the soul; the passions, of the body.
Conscience is wiser than science.
Conscientia mille testes
Con scienza
Consecrated is the spot which a good man has trodden.
Consecration is going out into the world where God Almighty is, and using every power for His glory.
Conseil d'état
Consensus facit legem
Consequitur quodcunque petit
Conservatism is the pause on the last movement.
Consideration, like an angel, came, / And whipp'd th' offending Adam out of him, / Leaving his body as a paradise, / To envelop and contain celestial spirits.
Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow;
they toil not, neither do they spin; and yet I say unto you, that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Consilio et animis
Conspicuous by its absence.
Constans et fidelitate
Constant attention wears the active mind, / Blots out her powers, and leaves a blank behind.
Constantia et virtute
Constantly choose rather to want less than to have more.
Constant occupation prevents temptation.
Constant thought will overflow in words unconsciously.
Consuetudinis magna vis est
Consuetudo est altera lex
Consuetudo est secunda natura
Consuetudo pro lege servatur
Consult duty, not events.
Contaminate our fingers with base bribes?... I'd rather be a dog and bay the moon than such a Roman.
Contas na maõ, e o demonio no coraçaõ
Contemni est gravius stultitiæ quam percuti
Contemporaries appreciate the man rather than his merit; posterity will regard the merit rather than the man.
Contempt is a dangerous element to sport in; a deadly one, if we habitually live in it.
Contempt is a kind of gangrene, which, if it seizes one part of a character, corrupts all the rest by degrees.
Contempt is the only way to triumph over
calumny.
Contented wi' little, an' cantie (cheerily happy) wi' mair.
Content if hence th' unlearn'd their wants may view, / The learn'd reflect on what before they knew.
Contention is a hydra's head; the more they strive, the more they may.
Contention, like a horse / Full of high feeding, madly hath broken loose, / And bears all down before him.
Contentions fierce, / Ardent, and dire, spring
from no petty cause.
Contentions for trifles can get but a trifling victory.
Content is better than riches.
Content is the true philosopher's stone.
Contentment, as it is a short road and pleasant, has great delight and little trouble.
Contentment consisteth not in adding more
fuel, but in taking away some fire.
Contentment is natural wealth.
Contentment will make a cottage look as fair as a palace.
Contentment without money is the philosopher's stone.
Content's a kingdom, and I wear that crown.
Content thyself to be obscurely good; / When
vice prevails, and impious men bear sway, / The post of honour is a private station.
Content with poverty, my soul I arm; / And virtue, though in rags, will keep me warm.
Contesa vecchia tosto si fa nuova
Conticuere omnes, intentique ora tenebant
Continued eloquence wearies.
Contra bonos mores
Contra malum mortis, non est medicamen in hortis
Contraria contrariis curantur
Contrast increases the splendour of beauty, but it disturbs its influence; it adds to its attractiveness, but diminishes its power.
Contrat social
Contra verbosos noli contendere verbis; /
Sermo datur cunctis, animi sapientia paucis
Contredire, c'est quelquefois frapper à une porte, pour savoir s'il y a quelqu'un dans la maison
Contre fortune bon cœur
Contre les rebelles, c'est cruauté que d'estre humain et humanité d'estre cruel
Contre-temps
Contrivances of the time / For sowing broadcast
the seeds of crime.
Contumeliam si dicis, audies
Conversation enriches the understanding; but solitude is the school of genius.
Conversation in society is found to be on a platform so low as to exclude science, the saint, and the poet.
Conversation is an abandonment to ideas, a surrender to persons.
Conversation is an art in which a man has all
mankind for competitors.
Conversation is a traffic; and if you enter into it without some stock of knowledge to balance the account perpetually, the trade drops at once.
Conversation will not corrupt us if we come to the assembly in our own garb and speech, and with the energy of health to select what is ours and reject what is not.
Converse with a mind that is grandly simple, and literature looks like word-catching.
Conversion--a grand epoch for a man; properly the one epoch; the turning-point which guides upwards, or guides downwards, him and his activities for evermore.
Conversion is the awakening of a soul to see
into the awful
Time and its shows all rest on Eternity, and this poor earth of ours is the threshold either of heaven or hell.
Convey a libel in a frown, / And wink a reputation down.
Convey thy love to thy friend as an arrow to the mark; not as a ball against the wall, to rebound back again.
Conviction, never so excellent, is worthless till it convert itself into conduct.
Copia verborum
Coraçaõ determinado, naõ soffre conselho
Coram domino rege
Coram nobis
Coram non judice
Corbies (crows) and clergy are kittle shot (hard to hit).
Corbies dinna pick oot corbies' een
Cordon bleu
Cordon sanitaire
Corn is gleaned with wind, and the soul with
chastening.
Cor nobile, cor immobile
Coronat virtus cultores suos
Corpo ben feito naõ ha mester capa
Corpora lente augescunt, cito extinguuntur
Corporations cannot commit treason, nor be
outlawed nor excommunicated, for they have no souls.
Corporations have neither bodies to be punished nor souls to be damned.
Corporis et fortunæ bonorum, ut initium, finis est. Omnia orta occidunt, et aucta senescunt
Corpo satollo non crede all' affamato
Corps d'armée
Corps diplomatique
Corpus Christi
Corpus delicti
Corpus sine pectore
Correct counting keeps good friends.
Correction does much, but encouragement does
more.
Correction is good, administered in time.
Corre lontano chi non torna mai
Corrigenda
Corrupted freemen are the worst of slaves.
Corruption is like a ball of snow, when once
set a rolling it must increase.
Corruptions can only be expiated by the blood of the just ascending to heaven by the steps of the scaffold.
Corruptio optimi pessima
Corruptissima in republica plurimæ leges
Cor unum, via una
Corvées
Cosa ben fatta è fatta due volte
Cosa fatta, capo ha
Cosa mala nunca muere
Così fan tutti
Cos ingeniorum
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy, / But not expressed in fancy; rich, not gaudy; / For the apparel oft proclaims the man.
Costumbre hace ley
Could everything be done twice, it would be done better.
Could great men thunder / As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet; / For every pelting, petty officer / Would use his heaven for thunder; nothing but thunder.
Could we forbear dispute and practise love, /
We should agree as angels do above.
Could you see every man's career in life, you would find a woman clogging him ... or cheering him and goading him.
Couleur de rose
Count art by gold, and it fetters the feet it once winged.
Count the world not an inn but an hospital; and a place not to live in, but to die in.
Countries are well cultivated, not as they
are fertile, but as they are free.
Coup de grace
Coup de main
Coup de pied
Coup de soleil
Coup d'essai
Coup d'état
Coup de théâtre
Coup d'œil
Courage against misfortune, and reason against passion.
Courage and modesty are the most unequivocal
of virtues, for they are of a kind that hypocrisy cannot imitate.
Courage consists in equality to the problem before us.
Courage consists not in blindly overlooking danger, but in meeting it with the eyes open.
Courage consists not in hazarding without fear, but being resolutely minded in a just cause.
Courage! even sorrows, when once they are vanished, quicken the soul, as rain the valley.
Courage is generosity of the highest order,
for the brave are prodigal of the most precious things.
Courage is on all hands considered an essential of high character.
Courage is the wisdom of manhood; foolhardiness, the folly of youth.
Courage mounteth with occasion.
Courage never to submit or yield.
Courage of soul is necessary for the triumphs
of genius.
Courage of the soldier awakes the courage of woman.
Courage, or the degree of life, is as the degree of circulation of the blood in the arteries.
Courage sans peur
Courage, sir, / That makes man or woman look their goodliest.
Courage, so far as it is a sign of race, is peculiarly the mark of a gentleman or a lady; but it becomes vulgar if rude or insensitive.
Courtesy costs nothing.
Courtesy is cumbersome to him that kens it not.
Courtesy is often sooner found in lowly sheds with smoky rafters, than in tapestry halls and courts of princes, where it first was named.
Courtesy itself must convert to disdain, if you come in her presence.
Courtesy never broke one's crown.
Courtesy of temper, when it is used to veil
churlishness of deed, is but a knight's girdle around the breast of a base clown.
Courtship consists in a number of quiet attentions, not so pointed as to alarm, nor so vague as not to be understood.
Coûte qu'il coûte
Cover yourself with honey and the flies will fasten on you.
Covetous men need money least, yet most affect it; and prodigals, who need it most, do least regard it.
Covetousness bursts the bag.
Covetousness is a sort of mental gluttony, not confined to money, but greedy of honour and feeding on selfishness.
Covetousness is ever attended with solicitude and anxiety.
Covetousness is rich, while modesty goes barefoot.
Covetousness, like jealousy, when it has once taken root, never leaves a man but with his life.
Covetousness often starves other vices.
Covetousness swells the principal to no purpose, and lessens the use to all purposes.
Covetousness, which is idolatry.
Coward dogs / Most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten / Runs far before them.
Cowardice is the dread of what will happen.
Cowards are cruel, but the brave / Love mercy,
and delight to save.
Cowards die many times before their deaths; / The valiant never taste of death but once. / Of all the wonders that I yet have heard, It seems to me most strange that men should fear; / Seeing that death, a necessary end, / Will come when it will come.
Cowards falter, but danger is often overcome by those who nobly dare.
Cowards father cowards, and base things sire base; / Nature hath meal and bran, contempt and grace.
Cowards tell lies, and those that fear the rod.
Crabbed age and youth / Cannot live together.
Craftiness is a quality in the mind and a vice in the character.
Craft maun hae claes (clothes), but truth gaes naked.
Crafty men contemn studies; simple men admire them; and wise men use them; for they teach not their own use; but that is wisdom without them, and above them won by observation.
Craignez honte
Craignez tout d'un auteur en courroux
Crambe repetita
Cras credemus, hodie nihil
Crea el cuervo, y sacarte ha los ojos
Creaking waggons are long in passing.
Created half to rise and half to fall, / Great
lord of all things, yet a prey to all; / Sole judge of truth, in endless error hurl'd; / The glory, jest, and riddle of the world.
Creation is great, and cannot be understood.
Creation lies before us like a glorious rainbow; but the sun that made it lies behind us, hidden from us.
Creation's heir, the world, the world is mine.
Creation sleeps! 'Tis as the general pulse / Of life stood still, and Nature made a pause, / An awful pause, prophetic of her end.
Credat Judæus Apella
Crede quod est quod vis
Crede quod habes, et habes
Credit keeps the crown o' the causey
Creditors have better memories than debtors.
Credo, quia absurdum
Credula res amor est
Credula vitam / Spes fovet, et fore cras semper ait melius
Credulity is perhaps a weakness almost inseparable from eminently truthful characters.
Credulity is the common failing of inexperienced virtue.
Creep before you gang (walk).
Crescentem sequitur cura pecuniam, / Majorumque fames
Crescit amor nummi quantum ipsa pecunia crescit
Crescit occulto velut arbor ævo
Crescit sub pondere virtus
Cressa ne careat pulchra dies nota
Creta an carbone notandi?
Crime and punishment grow out of one stem.
Punishment is a fruit that, unsuspected, ripens within the flower of the pleasure that concealed it.
Crime cannot be hindered by punishment, but only by letting no man grow up a criminal.
Crime, like virtue, has its degrees.
Crimen læsæ majestatis
Crimen quos inquinat, æquat
Crimes generally punish themselves.
Crimes sometimes shock us too much; vices almost always too little.
Crimina qui cernunt aliorum, non sua cernunt, / Hi sapiunt aliis, desipiuntque sibi
Crimine ab uno / Disce omnes
Cripples are aye better schemers than walkers.
Criticism is a disinterested endeavour to learn
and propagate the best that is known and thought in the world.
Criticism is as often a trade as a science, requiring, as it does, more health than wit, more labour than capacity, more practice than genius.
Criticism is like champagne, nothing more execrable if bad, nothing more excellent if good.
Criticism is not construction; it is observation.
Criticism must never be sharpened into anatomy. The life of the imagination, as of the body, disappears when we pursue it.
Criticism often takes from the tree caterpillars
and blossoms together.
Criticism should be written for the public, not the artist.
Critics all are ready made.
Critics are men who have failed in literature and art.
Critics are sentinels in the grand army of letters, stationed at the corners of newspapers and reviews to challenge every new author.
Critics must excuse me if I compare them to
certain animals called asses, who, by gnawing vines, originally taught the great advantage of pruning them.
Crosses are ladders that lead to heaven.
Crows do not pick out crows' eyes.
Cruci dum spiro fido
Crudelem medicum intemperans æger facit
Crudelis ubique / Luctus, ubique pavor, et
plurima mortis imago
Cruel as death, and hungry as the grave.
Cruel men are the greatest lovers of mercy; avaricious, of generosity; proud, of humility,--in others.
Cruelty in war buyeth conquest at the dearest price.
Cruelty is no more the cure of crimes than it is the cure of sufferings.
Crux criticorum
Crux est si metuas quod vincere nequeas
Crux medicorum
Cry "Havock," and let slip the dogs of war.
Cucullus non facit monachum
Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your
dull ass will not mend his pace with beating.
Cui bono?
Cuidar muitas cousas, fazer huma
Cuidar naõ he saber
Cui lecta potenter erit res / Nec facundia deseret hunc nec lucidus ordo
Cuilibet in arte sua perito credendum est
Cui licitus est finis, etiam licent media
Cui malo?
Cui mens divinior atque os / Magna sonaturum des nominis hujus honorem
Cui non conveniat sua res, ut calceus olim, / Si pede major erit, subvertet, si minor, uret
Cui placet alterius, sua nimirum est odio sors
Cui placet, obliviscitur; cui dolet, meminit
Cui prodest scelus, is fecit
Cuique suum
Cui serpe mozzica, lucenta teme
Cujus est solum, ejus est usque ad cœlum
Cujus rei libet simulator atque dissimulator
Cujusvis hominis est errare: nullius nisi insipientis in errore perseverare
Cujus vita fulgor, ejus verba tonitrua
Cujus vulturis hoc erit cadaver?
Cul de sac
Culpam pœna premit comes
Cultivated labour drives out brute labour.
Cultivate not only the cornfields of your mind, but the pleasure-grounds also.
Cultivation is as necessary to the mind as food to the body.
Culture, aiming at the perfection of the man as the end, degrades everything else, as health and bodily life, into means.
Culture enables us to express ourselves.
Culture implies all which gives the mind possession of its own powers.
Culture inverts the vulgar views of nature, and brings the mind to call that apparent which it uses to call real, and that real which it uses to call visionary.
Culture is a study of perfection.
Culture is the passion for sweetness and light, and (what is more) the passion for making them prevail.
Culture (is the process by which a man) becomes
all that he was created capable of being, resisting all impediments, casting off all foreign, especially all noxious, adhesions, and showing himself at length in his own shape and stature, be these what they may.
Culture merely for culture's sake can never be anything but a sapless root, capable of producing at best a shrivelled branch.
Culture must not omit the arming of the man.
Culture of the thinking, the dispositions
and the morals is the only education that deserves the name, not mere instruction.
Cum grano salis
Cum privilegio
Cunctando restituit rem
Cuncti adsint, meritæque expectent præmia palmæ
Cunctis servatorem liberatoremque acclamantibus
Cunning is the art of concealing our own defects, and discovering other people's weaknesses.
Cunning is the dwarf of wisdom.
Cunning is the intensest rendering of vulgarity, absolute and utter.
Cunning is to wisdom as an ape to a man.
Cunning leads to knavery; 'tis but a step, and that a very slippery, from the one to the other. Lying only makes the difference; add that to cunning, and it is knavery.
Cunning signifies especially a habit or gift of over-reaching, accompanied with enjoyment and a sense of superiority.
Cunning surpasses strength.
Cupias non placuisse nimis
Cupid is a knavish lad, / Thus to make poor females mad.
Cupid makes it his sport to pull the warrior's plumes.
Cupido dominandi cunctis affectibus flagrantior est
Cupid's butt-shaft is too hard for Hercules'
club.
Curæ leves loquuntur, ingentes stupent
Cura facit canos
Cura pii dis sunt, et qui coluere, coluntur
Cura ut valeas
Curiosa felicitas
Curiosis fabricavit inferos
Curiosity is a desire to know why and how; such as is in no living creature but man.
Curiosity is lying in wait for every secret.
Curiosity is one of the forms of feminine bravery.
Curiosity is the direct incontinency of the spirit.
Knock, therefore, at the door before you enter on your neighbour's privacy; and remember that there is no difference between entering into his house and looking into it.
Curiosity is the kernel of the forbidden fruit.
Curiosus nemo est, quin idem sit malevolus
Curious to think how, for every man, any the truest fact is modelled by the nature of the man.
Currente calamo
Cursed be the social ties that warp us from
the living truth.
Curse on all laws but those which love has made.
Curses always recoil on the head of him who imprecates them. If you put a chain around the neck of a slave, the other end fastens itself around your own.
Curses are like chickens; they always return home.
Curses, not loud, but deep, mouth-honour, breath, / Which the poor heart would fain deny, but dare not.
Curst be the man, the poorest wretch in life, / The crouching vassal to the tyrant wife, / Who has no will but by her high permission; / Who has not sixpence but in her possession; / Who must to her his dear friend's secret tell; / Who dreads a curtain lecture worse than hell. / Were such the wife had fallen to my part, / I'd break her spirit or I'd break her heart.
Curst be the verse, how well soe'er it flow, / That tends to make one worthy man my foe, / Give virtue scandal, innocence a fear, / Or from the soft-ey'd virgin steal a tear.
Curs'd merchandise, where life is sold, / And avarice consents to starve for gold.
Custom does often reason overrule, / And only serves for reason to the fool.
Custom doth make dotards of us all.
Custom forms us all; / Our thoughts, our morals, our most fixed belief, / Are consequences of our place of birth.
Custom is the law of one set of fools, and fashion of another; but the two often clash, for precedent is the legislator of the one and novelty of the other.
Custom is the plague of wise men and the idol of fools.
Custom may lead a man into many errors, but it justifies none.
Custom reconciles to everything.
Custos morum
Custos regni
Custos rotulorum
Cutis vulpina consuenda est cum cute leonis
Cut men's throats with whisperings.
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin, / Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd; / No reckoning made, but sent to my account / With all my imperfections on my head.
Cut out the love of self, like an autumn lotus, with thy hand.
Cutting honest throats by whispers.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Daar niets goeds in is, gaat niets goeds nit
Daar 't een mensch wee doet, daar heeft hij de hand
Daar twee kijven hebben ze beiden schuld
Daar zijn meer dieven als er opgehangen worden
Dabit Deus his quoque finem
Da capo
D'accord
Da chi mi fido, / Guardi mi Dio. / Da chi non mi fido, / Mi guarderò io
Dachtet ihr, der Löwe schliefe, weil er nicht brüllte?
Da die Götter menschlicher noch waren, / Waren Menschen göttlicher
Dádivas quebrantan peñas
Da du Welt nicht kannst entsagen, / Erobre dir sie mit Gewalt
Dafür bin ich ein Mann, dass sich aushalte in dem was ich begonnen, dass ich einstehe mit Leib und Leben für das Trachten meines Geistes
Daily life is more instructive than the most effective book.
Dal detto al fatto v'è un gran tratto
Da locum melioribus
Dame donde me asiente, que yo me haré donde me acueste
Dames quêteuses
Dämmerung ist Menschenlos in jeder Beziehung
Damna minus consueta movent
Damnant quod non intelligunt
Damn'd neuters, in their middle way of steering, / Are neither fish, nor flesh, nor good red-herring.
Damnosa hæreditas
Damnosa quid non imminuit dies?
Damnum absque injuria
Damnum appellandum est cum mala fama lucrum
Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer, / And without sneering, teach the rest to sneer. / Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike; / Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike.
Danari fanno danari
Dance attendance on their lordships' pleasure.
Dan Chaucer, well of English undefiled, / On Fame's eternal bead-roll worthy to be filed.
Dandies, when first-rate, are generally very agreeable men.
Danger for danger's sake is senseless.
Danger is the very basis of superstition. It produces a searching after help supernaturally when human means are no longer supposed to be available.
Danger levels man and brute, / And all are fellows in their need.
Danger past, God forgotten.
Dannosa è il dono che toglie la libertà
Dans l'adversité de nos meilleurs amis, nous trouvons toujours quelque chose qui ne nous déplait pas
Dans la morale, comme l'art, dire n'est rien, faire est tout
Dans l'art d'intéresser consiste l'art d'écrire
Dans le nombre de quarante ne fait-il pas un
zéro?
Dans les conseils d'un état, il ne faut pas tant regarder ce qu'on doit faire, que ce qu'on peut faire
Dante was very bad company, and was never invited to dinner.
Dante, who loved well because he hated, / Hated wickedness that hinders loving.
Dantur opes nulli nunc nisi divitibus
Dapes inemptæ
Dapibus supremi / Grata testudo Jovis
Dare pondus idonea fumo
Dare to be true, nothing can need a lie; / A fault which needs it most, grows two thereby.
Daring nonsense seldom fails to hit, / Like scattered shot, and pass with some for wit.
Darkness visible.
Darkness which may be felt.
Dark night, that from the eye his function takes, / The ear more quick of apprehension makes.
Dark with excessive bright.
Das Alte stürzt, es ändert sich die Zeit, / Und neues Leben blüht aus den Ruinen
Das Alter der göttlichen Phantasie / Es
ist verschwunden, es kehret nie
Das Alter wägt, die Jugend wagt
Das arme Herz, hienieden / Von manchem Sturm bewegt, / Erlangt den wahren Frieden, / Nur, wo es nicht mehr schlägt
Das Auge des Herrn schafft mehr als seine beiden Hände
Das begreife ein andrer als ich!
Das Beste, was wir von der Geschichte haben,
ist der Enthusiasmus, den sie erregt
Das Edle zu erkennen ist Gewinnst / Der nimmer uns entrissen werden kann
Das einfach Schöne soll der Kenner schätzen; / Verziertes aber spricht der Menge zu
Das Erste und Letzte, was vom Genie gefordert wird, ist Wahrheitsliebe
Das Geeinte zu entzweien, das Entzweite zu einigen, ist das Leben der Natur
Das Geheimniss ist für die Glücklichen
Das Genie erfindet, der Witz findet bloss
Das Gesetz ist der Freund des Schwachen
Das Gesetz nur kann uns Freiheit geben
Das Gewebe dieser Welt ist aus Nothwendigkeit und Zufall gebildet; die Vernunft des Menschen stellt sich zwischen beide, und weiss sie zu beherrschen
Das glaub' ich
Das Glück deiner Tage / Wäge nicht mit der Goldwage. / Wirst du die Krämerwage nehmen, / So wirst du dich schämen und dich bequemen
Das Glück giebt Vielen zu viel, aber Keinem genug
Das glücklichste Wort es wird verhöhnt, / Wenn der Hörer ein Schiefohr ist
Das grosse unzerstörbare Wunder ist der Menschenglaube an Wunder
Das Grösste, was dem Menschen begegnen
kann, ist es wohl, in der eigenen Sache die allgemeine zu vertheitigen
Das hat die Freude mit dem Schmerz gemein, / Dass sie die Menschen der Vernunft beraubt
Das Heiligste, die Pflicht, ist leider das, was wir am öftersten in uns bekämpfen und meistens wider Willen thun
Das Herz gleicht dem Mühlsteine der Mehl gibt, wenn man Korn aufshüttet, aber sich selbst zerreibt, wenn man es unterlasst
Das Herz und nicht die Meinung ehrt den Mann
Das höchste Glück ist das, welches unsere
Mängel verbessert und unsere Fehler ausgleicht
Das Hohngelächter der Hölle
Das Ideal in der Kunst, Grösse in Ruhe darzustellen, sei das Ideal auf dem Throne
Das ist die wahre Liebe, die immer und immer sich gleich bleibt, / Wenn man ihr alles gewährt, wenn man ihr alles versagt
Das Jahrhundert / Ist meinem Ideal nicht reif. Ich lebe / Ein Bürge derer, welche kommen werden
Das Kind mit dem Bade verschütten
Das Kleine in einen grossen Sinne behandeln, ist Hoheit des Geistes; das Kleine für gross und wichtig halten, ist Pedantismus
Das Leben dünkt ein ew'ger Frühling mir
Das Leben eines Staates ist, wie ein Strom, in fortgehender Bewegung; wenn der Strom steht, so wird er Eis oder Sumpf
Das Leben gehört den Lebendigen an, und wer lebt, muss auf Wechsel gefasst sein
Das Leben heisst Streben
Das Leben ist die Liebe / Und des Lebens Leben Geist
Das Leben ist nur ein Moment, der Tod ist auch nur einer
Das Leben lehrt uns, weniger mit uns / Und andern strenge sein
Das Nächste das Liebste
Das Nächste steht oft unergreifbar fern
Da spatium tenuemque moram; male cuncta, ministrat / Impetus
Das Publikum, das ist ein Mann / Der alles weiss und gar nichts kann
Das Recht hat eine wächserne Nase
Das Reich der Dichtung ist das Reich der Wahrheit / Schliesst auf das Heiligthum, es werde Licht
Das Schicksal ist ein vornehmer aber theurer
Hofmeister
Das schönste Glück des denkenden Menschen ist, das Erforschliche erforscht zu haben, und das Unerforschliche ruhig zu verehren
Das schwere Herz wird nicht durch Worte leicht
Das Schwerste in allen Werken der Kunst ist dass dasjenige, was sehr ausgearbeitet worden, nicht ausgearbeitet scheine
Das Siegel der Wahrheit ist Einfachheit
Das sind die Weisen, / Die durch Irrtum zur
Wahrheit reisen; / Die bei dem Irrtum verharren, / Das sind die Narren
Das Sprichwort sagt: Ein eigner Herd, / Ein braves Weib sind Gold und Perlen wert
Das Talent arbeitet, das Genie schafft
Das Unglück kann die Weisheit nicht, Doch Weisheit kann das Unglück tragen
Das Universum ist ein Gedanke Gottes
Das Unvermeidliche mit Würde trage
Das Vaterland der Gedanken ist das Herz: an dieser Quelle muss schöpfen, wer frisch trinken will
Das Verhängte muss geschehen, / Das Gefürchte muss nahn
Das Volk ist frei; seht an, wie wohl's ihm geht!
Das Volk schätzt Stärke vor allem
Das Vortreffliche ist unergründlich, man mag damit anfangen was man will
Das Wahre ist gottähnlich; es erscheint nicht unmittelbar, wir müssen es ans seinen Manifestationen errathen
Das Warum wird offenbar, / Wann die Toten aufersteh'n
Das was mir wichtig scheint, hältst du für
Kleinigkeiten; / Das was mich ärgert hat bei dir nichts zu bedeuten
Das Weib sieht tief, der Mann sieht weit. Dem Manne ist die Welt das Herz, dem Weibe ist das Herz die Welt
Das Wenige verschwindet leicht dem Blick, / Der vorwärts sieht, wie viel noch übrig bleibt
Das Werk lobt den Meister
Das Wort ist frei, die That ist stumm, der Gehorsam blind
Das Wunder ist des Glaubens liebstes Kind
Data fata secutus
Dat Deus immiti cornua curta bovi
Dà tempo al tempo
Date obolum Belisario
Dat Galenus opes, dat Justinianus honores /
Sed Moses sacco cogitar ire pedes
Dat inania verba, / Dat sine mente sonum
Dat veniam corvis, vexat censura columbas
Daub yourself with honey, and you'll be covered with flies.
Dauer im Wechsel
Da veniam lacrymis
Da ventura a tu hijo, y echa lo en el mar
Davus sum, non Œdipus
Dawted dochters mak' dawly wives
Day follows the murkiest night; and when the time comes, the latest fruits also ripen.
Day is driven on by day, and the new moons
hasten to their wane.
Daylight will come, though the cock does not crow.
Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom.
De adel der ziel is meer waardig dan de adel des geslachts
Dead men open living men's eyes.
Dead scandals form good subjects for dissection.
De alieno largitor, et sui restrictor
Deal mildly with his youth; / For young hot colts, being raged, do rage the more.
Deal so plainly with man and woman as to constrain the utmost sincerity and destroy all hope of trifling with you.
Dear is cheap, and cheap is dear.
Dear son of memory, great heir of fame.
Death and life are in the power of the tongue.
Death-bed repentance is sowing seed at Martinmas.
Death borders upon our birth, and our cradle stands in the grave.
Death but supplies the oil for the inextinguishable lamp of life.
Death comes equally to us all, and makes us
all equal when it comes.
Death finds us 'mid our playthings--snatches us, / As a cross nurse might do a wayward child. / From all our toys and baubles.
Death gives us sleep, eternal youth, and immortality.
Death is a black camel that kneels at every man's door.
Death is a commingling of eternity with time; in the death of a good man eternity is seen looking through time.
Death is a fearful thing.
Death is a friend of ours, and he who is not ready to entertain him is not at home.
Death is but another phasis of life, which also is awful, fearful, and wonderful, reaching to heaven and hell.
Death is but a word to us. Our own experience alone can teach us the real meaning of the word.
Death is but what the haughty brave, / The weak must bear, the wretch must crave.
Death is sure / To those that stay and those
that roam.
Death is the only physician, the shadow of his valley the only journeying that will cure us of age and the gathering fatigue of years.
Death is the quiet haven of us all.
Death is the tyrant of the imagination.
Death is the wish of some, the relief of many, and the end of all.
Death joins us to the great majority; / 'Tis to be borne to Platos and to Cæsars; / 'Tis to be great for ever; / 'Tis pleasure, 'tis ambition, then, to die.
Death lays his icy hand on kings.
Death levels all distinctions.
Death lies on her, like an untimely frost, / Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
Death may expiate faults, but it does not
repair them.
Death opens the gate of fame, and shuts the gate of envy after it.
Death pays all debts.
Death puts an end to all rivalship and competition. The dead can boast no advantage over us, nor can we triumph over them.
Death rides in every passing breeze, / He lurks in every flower.
Death's but a path that must be trod, / If
man would ever pass to God.
Death shuns the wretch who fain the blow would meet.
Death, so called, is a thing which makes men weep, / And yet a third of life is passed in sleep.
Death stands behind the young man's back, before the old man's face.
Death treads in pleasure's footsteps round the world.
Death will have his day.
De auditu
Debate is masculine, conversation is feminine; the former angular, the latter circular and radiant of the underlying unity.
De beste zaak heeft nog een goed' advocaat noodig
Debetis velle quæ velimus
De bonne grâce
De bonne lutte
De bon vouloir servir le roy
Debt is the worst kind of poverty.
Debt is to a man what the serpent is to the bird; its eye fascinates, its breath poisons, its coil crushes both sinew and bone; its jaw is the pitiless grave.
Debts make the cheeks black.
De calceo sollicitus, at pedem nihil curans
Deceit and falsehood, whatever conveniences they may for a time promise or produce, are, in the sum of life, obstacles to happiness.
Deceit is a game played only by small minds.
Decency is the least of all laws, yet it is the one which is the most strictly observed.
Deceptio visus
Decet affectus animi neque se nimium erigere nec subjicere serviliter
Decet imperatorem stantem mori
Decet patriam nobis cariorem esse quam nosmetipsos
Decet verecundum esse adolescentem
Decies repetita placebit
Decipimur specie recti
Decipit / Frons prima multos
Decision and perseverance are the noblest qualities of man.
Declaring the end from the beginning, and from the ancient times the things that are not yet done.
Decori decus addit avito
Decorum ab honesto non potest separari
De court plaisir, long repentir
Decrevi
Decus et tutamen
Dedecet philosophum abjicere animum
De die in diem
Dedimus potestatem
Dediscit animus sero quod didicit diu
Deeds survive the doers.
Deep calleth unto deep.
Deep insight will always, like Nature, ultimate its thought in a thing.
Deep in the frozen regions of the north, / A goddess violated brought thee forth, / Immortal liberty.
Deep on his front engraven / Deliberation sat, and public care.
Deep subtle wits, / In truth, are master spirits in the world.
Deep vengeance is the daughter of deep                               55 silence.
Deep vers'd in books, and shallow in himself.
De ezels dragen de haver, en de paarden eten die
De facto
Defeat is a school in which truth always grows strong.
Defeat is nothing but education, nothing but                         60 the first step to something better.
Defect in manners is usually the defect of fine perception.
Defectio virium adolescentiæ vitiis efficitur sæpius quam senectutis
Defendit numerus junctæque umbone phalanges
Defend me, common sense, say I, / From reveries so airy, from the toil / Of dropping buckets into empty wells, / And growing old with drawing nothing up.
Defend me from my friends; I can defend myself from my enemies.
Deference is the most complicate, the most indirect, and the most elegant of all compliments.
Defer no time; / Delays have dangerous ends.
Defer not the least virtue; life's poor span /
Make not an ell, by trifling in thy woe. / If thou do ill, the joy fades, not the pains; / If well, the pain doth fade, the joy remains.
Defer not till to-morrow to be wise, / To-morrow's sun to thee may never rise.
Deficiunt vires
Defienda me Dios de my
Definition of words has been commonly called a mere exercise of grammarians; but when we come to consider the innumerable evils men have inflicted on each other from mistaking the meaning of words, the exercise of definition certainly begins to assume rather a more dignified aspect.
Deformed, unfinished, sent before my time /
Into this breathing world, scarce half made up, / And that so lamely and unfashionable, / That dogs bark at me as I halt by them.
Deformity is daring; it is its essence to overtake mankind by heart and soul, and make itself the equal, ay, the superior of the rest.
De fumo in flammam
Dégagé
De gaieté de cœur
Degeneres animos timor arguit
Degli uomini si può dire questo generalmente che sieno ingrate, volubili simulatori, fuggitori pericoli, cupidi di guadagno
Degrees infinite of lustre there must always be, but the weakest among us has a gift, however seemingly trivial, which is peculiar to him, and which, worthily used, will be a gift also to his race for ever.
De gustibus non disputandum
De hambre a nadie vi morir, de mucho comer a cien mil
De haute lutte
De hoc multi multa, omnes aliquid, nemo satis
Dei gratia
Dei jussu non unquam credita Teneris
Deil stick pride, for my dog deed o'd.
Deil tak' the hin'most! on they drive, / Till
a' their weel-swall'd kytes belyve / Are bent like drums, / And auld guid man maist like to rive / "Bethankit" hums.
Dein Auge kann die Welt trüb' oder hell dir machen; / Wie du sie ansiehst, wird sie weinen oder lachen
De industria
De integro
Dei plena sunt omnia
Déjeûner à la fourchette
De jure
De kleine dieven hangt men, de groote laat men loopen
Del agua mansa me libre Dios; que de la recia me guardaré yo
De lana caprina
Delay has always been injurious to those who are ready.
Delay in vengeance gives a heavier blow.
Delay of justice is injustice.
Delectando pariterque monendo
Delenda est Carthago
Del giudizio, ognun ne vende
Deliberando sæpe perit occasio
Deliberandum est diu quod statuendum est semel
Deliberate treachery entails punishment upon the traitor.
Deliberate with caution, but act with decision;
and yield with graciousness or oppose with firmness.
Deliberat Roma, perit Saguntum
Delicacy is to the affections what grace is to the beauty.
Delicacy of taste has the same effect as delicacy of passion; it enlarges the sphere both of our happiness and misery, and makes us sensible to pain as well as pleasures, which escape the rest of mankind.
Deliciæ illepidæ atque inelegantes
Deligas tantum quem diligas
Delightful task! to rear the tender thought, / To teach the young idea how to shoot.
Deliramenta doctrinæ
Delirant reges, plectuntur Achivi
Deliriums are dreams not rounded with a sleep.
Deliverer, God hath appointed thee to free the oppressed and crush the oppressor.
Dell' albero non si giudica dalla scorza
De loin c'est quelque chose, et de près ce n'est rien
Delphinum sylvis appingit, fluctibus aprum
De lunatico inquirendo
Delusion and weakness produce not one mischief the less because they are universal.
Delusion may triumph, but the triumphs of delusion are but for a day.
Delusions are as necessary to our happiness as realities.
Delusive ideas are the motives of the greatest
part of mankind, and a heated imagination the power by which their actions are incited. The world in the eye of a philosopher may be said to be a large madhouse.
Del vero s'adira l'uomo
De mal en pis
De male quæsitis vix gaudet tertius hæres
Demean thyself more warily in thy study than in the street. If thy public actions have a hundred witnesses, thy private have a thousand.
De medietate linguæ
Dem Esel träumet von Disteln
Dem Glücklichen schlägt keine Stunde
Dem harten Muss bequemt sich Will' und Grille
Dem Herlichsten, was auch der Geist empfangen, drängt Stoff sich an
Dem Hunde, wenn er gut gezogen / Wird
selbst ein weiser Mann gewogen
De minimis non curat lex
Dem Menschen ist / Ein Mensch noch immer lieber als ein Engel
Democracies are prone to war, and war consumes them.
Democracy has done a wrong to everything that is not first-rate.
Democracy is always the work of kings.
Ashes, which in themselves are sterile, fertilise the land they are cast upon.
Democracy is, by the nature of it, a self-cancelling business, and gives in the long-run a net result of zero.
Democracy is the healthful life-blood which circulates through the veins and arteries, which supports the system, but which ought never to appear externally, and as the mere blood itself.
Democracy is the most powerful solvent of military organisation. The latter is founded on discipline; the former on the negation of discipline.
De monte alto
De mortuis nil nisi bonum
De motu proprio
Dem thätigen Menschen kommt es darauf an, dass er das Rechte thue; ob das Rechte geschehe, soll ihn nicht kümmern
Den Bösen sind sie los; die Bösen sind geblieben
De nihilo nihil, in nihilum nil posse reverti
Denique non omnes eadem mirantur amantque
Den Irrthum zu bekennen, schändet nicht
Denken und Thun, Thun und Denken, das ist die Summe aller Weisheit von jeher anerkannt, von jeher geübt, nicht eingesehen von einem jeden
Denke nur niemand, dass man auf ihn als den Heiland gewartet habe
Den leeren Schlauch bläst der Wind auf, / Den leeren Kopf der Dünkel
Den Mantel nach dem Winde kehren
Den Menschen Liebe, den Göttern Ehrfurcht
Denn geschwätzig sind die Zeiten, / Und sie sind auch wieder stumm
De non apparentibus, et non existentibus, eadem est ratio
De novo
Den Profit som kom seent, er bedre end aldeles
ingen
Den rechten Weg wirst nie vermissen, / Handle nur nach Gefühl und Gewissen
Den schlecten Mann muss man verachten / Der nie bedacht was er vollbringt
Dens theonina
Deo adjuvante non timendum
Deoch an doris
Deo dante nil nocet invidia, et non dante, nil
proficit labor
Deo date
Deo duce, ferro comitante
Deo duce, fortuna comitante
Deo ducente
Deo favente
Deo fidelis et regi
Deo gratias
Deo honor et gloria
Deo ignoto
Deo juvante
De omnibus rebus, et quibusdam aliis
De omni re scibile et quibusdam aliis
Deo, non fortuna
Deo, optimo maximo
Deo, patriæ, amicis
Deo, regi, patriæ
Deo, regi, vicino
Deo, republicæ, amicis
Deorum cibus est
De oui et non vient toute question
Deo volente
Depart from the highway and transplant thyself in some enclosed ground; for it is hard for a tree that stands by the wayside to keep her fruit till it be ripe.
De paupertate tacentes / Plus poscente ferent
De' peccati de' signori fanno penitenza i poveri
Dependence goes somewhat against the grain
of a generous mind; and it is no wonder, considering the unreasonable advantage which is often taken of the inequality of fortune.
Dependence is a perpetual call upon humanity, and a greater incitement to tenderness and pity than any other motive whatsoever.
Depend upon it, if a man talks of his misfortunes, there is something in them that is not disagreeable to him.
De pilo
De pis en pis
De plano
De præscientia Dei
Deprendi miserum est
Depressus extollor
De profundis
De propaganda fide
De publico est elatus
Der Ausgang giebt den Thaten ihre Titel
Der beste Prediger ist die Zeit
Der Böse hat nicht nur die Guten, sondern auch die Bösen gegen sich
Der brave Mann denkt an sich selbst zuletzt
Der civilisierte Wilde ist der schlimmste aller Wilden
Der den Augenblick ergreift / Das ist der rechte Mann
Der Dichter steht auf einer höhern Warte / Als auf den Zinnen der Partei
Der echte Geist schwingt sich empor / Und rafft die Zeit sich nach
Derelictio communis utilitatis contra naturam
Der Erde Paradies und Hölle / Liegt in dem Worte "Weib"
Der Fluss bleibt trüb, der nicht durch einen See gegangen, / Das Herz unsauber, das nicht durch ein Weh gegangen
Der Frauen Zungen ja nimmer ruhn
Der Friede ist immer die letzte Absicht des Krieges
Der Fuchs ändert den Pelz und behält den
Schalk
Der Fürst ist nichts, als der erste Diener des Staates
Der Geist, aus dem wir handeln, ist das Höchste
Der Geist der Medicin ist leicht zu fassen; / Ihr durchstudiert die gross' und kleine Welt, / Um es am Ende gehn zu lassen, / Wie's Gott gefällt
Der Geist, der stets verneint
Der Geist ist immer autochthone
Der geringste Mensch kann complet sein, wenn er sich innerhalb der Gränzen seiner Fähigkeiten und Fertigkeiten bewegt
Der Glaube ist der rechte, der, dass er der rechte bleibt, nicht gezwungen ist einen andern irrgläubig zu finden
Der Gott, der mir im Busen wohnt, / Kann
tief mein Innerstes erregen; der über allen meinen Kräften thront, er kann nach aussen nichts bewegen
Der grösste Mensch bleibt stets ein Menschenkind
Der grösste Schritt ist der aus der Thür
Der gute Mann braucht überall viel Boden
Der gute Wille ist in der Moral alles; aber in der Kunst ist er nichts: da gilt, wie schon das Wort andeutet, allein Können
Der Hahn schliesst die Augen, wann er krähet,
weil er es auswendig kann
Der Handelnde ist immer gewissenlos, es hat niemand Gewissen, als der Betrachtende
Der hat die Macht, an den die Menge glaubt
Der hat nie das Glück gekostet, der's in Ruh geniessen will
Der Hauptfehler des Menschen bleibt, dass er so viele kleine hat
Der Himmel giebt die Gunst des Augenblicks; /
Wer schnell sie fasst, wird Meister des Geschicks
Der Himmel kann ersetzen / Was er entzogen hat
Der Historiker ist ein rückwärts gekehrter Prophet
Der höchste Stolz und der höchste Kleinmuth ist die höchste Unkenntniss seiner selbst
Der höchste Vorwurf der Kunst für denkende Menschen ist der Mensch
Deridet, sed non derideor
Der Irrthum ist recht gut, so lange wir jung sind; man muss ihn nur nicht mit ins Alter schleppen
Der ist edel, / Welcher edel fühlt und handelt
Der Jugend Führer sei das Alter; beiden sei / Nur wenn sie als Verbundne wandeln, Glück versichert
Der Jüngling kämpft, damit der Greis geniesse
Der kann nicht klagen über harten Spruch,
den man zum Meister seines Schicksals macht
Der kleine Gott der Welt bleibt stets von gleichem Schlag / Und ist so wunderlich, als wie am ersten Tag
Der Krieg ist die stärkende Eisenkur der Menschheit
Der Künstler muss mit Feuer entwerfen und mit Phlegma ausführen
Der Lebende hat Recht
Der Mann, der das Wenn und das Aber
erdacht / Hat sicher aus Häckerling Gold schon gemacht
Der Mann muss hinaus ins feindliche Leben
Der Mensch begreift niemals wie anthropomorphisch er ist
Der Mensch denkt, Gott lenkt
Der Menschenkenner steht überall an seinem Platze
Der Mensch erfährt, er sei auch wer er mag, /
Ein letztes Glück und einen letzten Tag
Der Mensch hat nur allzusehr Ursache, sich vor dem Menschen zu schützen
Der Mensch ist ein nachahmendes Geschöpf und wer der vorderste ist, führt die Herde
Der Mensch ist entwickelt, nicht erschaffen
Der Mensch ist frei geschaffen, ist frei, / Und würd' er in Ketten geboren!
Der Mensch ist frei wie der Vogel im Käfig; er kann sich innerhalb gewisser Grenzen bewegen
Der Mensch ist im Grunde ein wildes, entsetzliches Thier
Der Mensch ist nicht bloss ein denkendes, er ist zugleich ein empfindendes Wesen. Er ist ein Ganzes, eine Einheit vielfacher, innig verbundner Kräfte, und zu diesem Ganzen muss das Kunstwerk reden
Der Mensch ist nicht geboren frei zu sein /
Und für den Edeln ist kein schöner Glück / Als einem Fürst, den er ehrt, zu dienen
Der Mensch ist selbst sein Gott, sein Beruf ist: Handeln
Der Mensch ist, was er isst
Der Mensch liebt nur einmal
Der Mensch muss bei dem Glauben verharren, dass das Unbegreifliche begreiflich sei; er würde sonst nicht forschen
Der Mensch muss ein Höheres, ein Göttliches
anerkennen--ob in sich oder über sich, gleichviel
Der Mensch versuche die Götter nicht
Der Mensch war immer Mensch, voll Unvollkommenheit
Der Mensch, wo ist er her? / Zu schlecht für einen Gott, zu gut für's Ungefähr
Der Muth der Wahrheit ist die erste Bedingung des philosophischen Studiums
Dernier ressort
Der Pfaff liebt seine Herde, doch die Lämmlein mehr als die Widder
Der preise glücklich sein, der von / Den Göttern dieser Welt entfernt lebt
Der Rathgeber eines Höheren handelt klüglich, wenn er sein geistiges Uebergewicht verbirgt, wie das Weib seine Schönheit verhüllt um des Sieges desto gewisser zu sein
Derrière la croix souvent se tient le diable
Der Ring macht Ehen, / Und Ringe sind's, die
eine Kette machen
Der Rose süsser Duft genügt, / Man braucht sie nicht zu brechen / Und wer sich mit dem Duft begnügt / Den wird ihr Dorn nicht stechen
Der Schein regiert die Welt, und die Gerechtigkeit ist nur auf der Bühne
Der Schein, was ist er, dem das Wesen fehlt? / Das Wesen wär' es, wenn es nicht erschiene?
Der Schmerz ist die Geburt der höheren Naturen
Der Sinn erweitert, aber lähmt; die That
belebt, aber beschränkt
Der Stärkste hat Recht
Der Stein im Sumpf / Macht keine Ringe
Der Tod entbindet von erzwungnen Pflichten
Der Umgang mit Frauen ist das Element guter Sitten
Der Verständige findet fast alles lächerlich,
der Vernünftige fast nichts
Der Vortrag macht des Redners Glück
Der Wahn ist kurz, die Reu' ist lang
Der Weg der Ordnung, ging er auch durch Krümmen, / Er ist kein Umweg
Der Weise hat die Ohren lang, die Zunge kurz
Der Weise kann des Mächtigen Gunst entbehren,
/ Doch nicht der Mächtige des Weisen Lehren
Der Wille ist des Werkes Seele
Der wird stets das Beste missen / Wer nicht borgt, was andre wissen
Der Witz ist die Freiheit des Sklaven
Der Zug des Herzens ist des Schicksals Stimme
Descend a step in choosing thy wife; ascend a step in choosing thy friend.
Description is always a bore, both to the describer
and the describee.
Deserted, at his utmost need, / By those his former bounty fed, / On the bare earth exposed be lies, / With not a friend to close his eyes.
Desiderantem quod satis est, neque / Tumultuosum sollicitat mare, / Non verberatæ grandine vineæ / Fundusque mendax
Desideratum
Desine fata Deum flecti sperare precando
Desinit in piscem mulier formosa superne
Désir de Dieu et désir de l'homme sont deux
Desires are the pulse of the soul.
Des Lebens Mühe / Lehrt uns allein des Lebens Güter schätzen
Des Mannes Mutter ist der Frau Teufel
Des Menschen Engel ist die Zeit
Des Menschens Leben ist / Ein kurzes Blühen und ein langes Welken
Despair defies even despotism; there is that in my heart would make its way through hosts with levelled spears.
Despair is like froward children, who, when you take away one of their playthings, throw the rest into the fire for madness.
Despair is the only genuine atheism.
Despair takes heart when there's no hope to
speed; / The coward then takes arms and does the deed.
Despair--the last dignity of the wretched.
Despatch is the soul of business.
Desperate diseases need desperate remedies.
Despise anxiety and wishing, the past and the future.
Despise not any man, and do not spurn anything;
for there is no man that has not his hour, nor is there anything that has not its place.
Despise not the discoveries of the wise, but acquaint thyself with their proverbs, for of them thou shalt learn instruction.
Despise your enemy and you will soon be beaten.
Despite his titles, power, and pelf, / The wretch concentred all in self, / Living, shall forfeit fair renown, / And, doubly dying, shall go down / To the vile dust, from whence he sprung, / Unwept, unhonoured, and unsung.
Despondency comes readily enough to the most sanguine.
Desponding fear, of feeble fancies full, / Weak
and unmanly, loosens every power.
Despotism is a legitimate mode of government in dealing with barbarians, provided the end be their improvement, and the means justified by actually effecting that end.
Despotism is essential in most enterprises; I am told they do not tolerate "freedom of debate" on board a seventy-four.
Despotism is often the effort of Nature to cure herself from a worse disease.
Despotism sits nowhere so secure as under the effigy and ensigns of freedom.
Despotismus ist der schwarze Punkt in aller
Menschen Herzen
Desque nací lloré, y cada dia nace porqué
Des Rats bedarf die Seele nicht, die Rechtes will
Destiny is our will, and will is nature.
Destitutus ventis remos adhibe
Destroy his fib or sophistry--in vain! / The
creature's at his dirty work again.
Des Uebels Quelle findest du nicht aus, und aufgefunden fliesst sie ewig fort
Desunt cætera
Desunt inopiæ multa, avaritiæ omnia
Des Zornes Ende ist der Reue Anfang
Deteriores omnes sumus licentia
Determined, dared, and done.
Detested sport, that owes its pleasures to another's pain.
De tijd is aan God en ons
Det ille veniam facile, cui venia est opus
Detour
De tout s'avise à qui pain faut
Detraction's a bold monster, and fears not / To wound the fame of princes, if it find / But any blemish in their lives to work on.
De trop
Detur aliquando otium quiesque fessis
Detur digniori
Detur pulchriori
Deum cole, regem serva
Deum colit, qui novit
Deus avertat
Deus ex machina
Deus hæc fortasse benigna / Reducet in sedem vice
Deus id vult
Deus major columna
Deus mihi providebit
Deus omnibus quod sat est suppeditat
Deus vult
Deux hommes se rencontrent bien, mais jamais deux montagnes
Deux yeux voient plus clair qu'un
Devil take the hindmost.
Devine si tu peux, et choisis si tu l'oses
Devise, wit; write, pen; for I am for whole volumes in folio.
De vive voix
Devote each day to the object then in time,
and every evening will find something done.
Devotion in distress is born, but vanishes in happiness.
Devotion, when it does not lie under the check of reason, is apt to degenerate into enthusiasm (fanaticism).
De waarheid is eene dochter van den tijd
Dewdrops are the gems of morning, but the tears of mournful eve.
De wereld wil betrogen zijn
Dexterity or experience no master can communicate to his disciple.
Dextras dare
Dextro tempore
Diamonds cut diamonds.
Di bene fecerunt, inopis me quodque pusilli /
Finxerunt animi, raro et perpauca loquentis
Dicam insigne, recens, adhuc / Indictum ore alio
Dicenda tacenda locutus
Dicere quæ puduit, scribere jussit amor
Dicique beatus / Ante obitum nemo supremaque funera debet
Dicta fides sequitur
Dicta tibi est lex
Dictum de dicto
Dictum factum
Dictum sapienti sat est
Did charity prevail, the press would prove / A
vehicle of virtue, truth, and love.
Did I know that my heart was bound to temporal possessions, I would throw the flaming brand among them with my own hand.
"Did I not tell you that after thunder rain would be sure to come on?"
Didst thou but know the inly touch of love, / Thou wouldst as soon go kindle fire with snow, / As seek to quench the fire of love with words.
Did you ever hear of Captain Wattle? / He was all for love and a little for the bottle.
Die Aemter sind Gottes; die Amtleute Teufels
Die alleinige Quelle des Rechts ist das gemeinsame Bewusstsein des ganzen Volks; der allgemeine Geist
Die Alten sind die einzigen Alten, die nie alt werden
Die Anmut macht unwiderstehlich
Die ärgsten Studenten werden die frömmsten Prediger
Die Armen müssen tanzen wie die Reichen
pfeifen
Die Augen glauben sich selbst, die Ohren andern Leuten
Die Augen sind weiter als der Bauch
Die besten Freunde stehen im Beutel
Die Bewunderung preist, die Liebe ist stumm
Die Blumen zu pflegen, / Das Unkraut zu
tilgen, / Ist Sache des Gärtners
Die Botschaft hör' ich wohl, allein mir fehlt der Glaube
Die Damen geben sich und ihren Putz zum besten / Und spielen ohne Gage mit
Die Dämmerung ist das freundliche Licht der Liebenden
Die de wereld wel beziet, men zag nooit schoonder niet
Die Dornen, die Disteln, sie stechen gar sehr,
doch stechen die Altjungfernzungen noch mehr
Die een ander jaagt zit zelfs niet stil
Die Ehe ist Himmel und Hölle
Die eigentliche Religion bleibt ein Inneres, ja Individuelles, denn sie hat ganz allein mit dem Gewissen zu thun; dieses soll erregt, soll beschwichtigt werden
Die Einsamkeit ist noth; doch sei nur nicht gemein, / So kannst du überall in einer Wüste sein
Die Eintracht nur macht stark und gross, /
Die Zwietracht stürzet alles nieder
Die Erde wird durch Liebe frei; / Durch Thaten wird sie gross
Die Erinnerung ist das einzige / Paradies, aus dem wir nicht vertrieben werden kann
Die Fabel ist der Liebe Heimatwelt, / Gern wohnt sie unter Feen, Talismanen, / Glaubt gern an Götter, weil sie göttlich ist
Die Frauen sind das einzige Gefäss, was uns Neuern noch geblieben ist, um unsere Idealität hineinzugiessen
Die Frauen tragen ihre Beweise im Herzen,
die Männer im Kopfe
Die Freiheit der Vernunft ist unser wahres Leben
Die Freiheit kann nicht untergehn, / So lange Schmiede Eisen hämmern
Die Freude kennst du nicht, wenn du nur Freuden kennest; / Dir fehlt das ganze Licht, wenn du's in Strahlen trennest
Die Freudigkeit ist die Mutter aller Tugenden
Die Gegenwart ist eine mächtige Göttin; Lern'
ihren Einfluss kennen
Die Geheimnisse der Lebenspfade darf und kann man nicht offenbaren; es gibt Steine des Anstosses, über die ein jeder Wanderer stolpern muss. Der Poet aber deutet auf die Stelle hin
Die Geisterwelt ist nicht verschlossen; / Dein Sinn ist zu, dein Herz ist todt
Die Geschichte der Wissenschaften ist eine grosse Fuge, in der die Stimmen der Völker nach und nach zum Vorschein kommen
Die Geschichte des Menschen ist sein Charakter
Die Gesetze der Moral sind auch die der
Kunst
Die Glocken sind die Artillerie der Geistlichkeit
Die goldne Zeit, wohin ist sie geflohen? / Nach der sich jedes Herz vergebens sehnt
Die Götter brauchen manchen guten Mann / Zu ihrem Dienst auf dieser weiten Erde. / Sie haben noch auf dich gezählt
Die Götter sprechen nur durch unser Herz zu uns
Die grosse Moral--das Interesse, sagte Mirabeau,
tötet in der Regel die kleine--das Gewissen
Die grössten Menschen hängen immer mit ihrem Jahrhundert durch eine Schwachheit zusammen
Die grössten Schwierigkeiten liegen da, wo wir sie nicht suchen
Die het in het vuur verloren heeft, moet het in de asch zoeken
Die Hindus der Wüste geloben keine Fische zu essen
Die höchste Naturschönheit ist das gottgleiche Wesen: der Mensch
Die höchste Weisheit ist, nicht weise stets zu sein
Die Hölle selbst hat ihre Rechte?
Die Ideale sind zerronnen, / Die einst das trunkne Herz geschwellt
Die Idee ist ewig und einzig.... Alles was
wir gewahr werden und wovon wir reden können, sind nur Manifestationen der Idee
Die Irrthümer des Menschen machen ihn eigentlich liebenswürdig
Diejenige Regierung ist die beste, die sich überflüssig macht
Die Kinder sind mein liebster Zeitvertreib
Die Kirche hat einen guten Magen, hat ganze Länder aufgefressen, und doch noch nie sich übergessen
Die Kirche ist's, die heilige, die hohe, / Die zu
dem Himmel uns die Leiter baut
Die Kleinen reden gar so gern von dem was die Grossen thun
Die Klugheit sich zur Führerin zu wählen / Das ist es, was den Weisen macht
Die Kraft ist schwach, allein die Lust ist gross
Die kranke Seele muss sich selber helfen
Die Krankheit des Gemütes löset sich / In
Klagen und Vertrauen am leichtesten auf
Die Kunst darf nie ein Kunststück werden
Die Kunst geht nach Brod
Die Kunst ist eine Vermittlerin des Unaussprechlichen
Die Leidenschaften sind Mängel oder Tugenden, nur gesteigerte
Die Leidenschaft flieht, / Die Liebe muss bleiben;
/ Die Blume verblüht, / Die Frucht muss treiben
Die letzte Wahl steht auch dem Schwächsten offen; / Ein Sprung von dieser Brücke macht mich frei
Die Liebe hat kein Mass der Zeit; sie keimt / Und blüht und reift in einer schönen Stunde
Die Liebe ist der Liebe Preis
Die Liebe macht zum Goldpalast die Hütte
Die Lieb' umfasst des Weibes volles Leben, /
Sie ist ihr Kerker und ihr Himmelreich
Die Lust ist mächtiger als alle Furcht der Strafe
Die Lust zu reden kommt zu rechter Stunde, / Und wahrhaft fliesst das Wort aus Herz und Munde
Die Manifestationen der Idee als des Schönen, ist eben so flüchtig, als die Manifestationen des Erhabenen, des Geistreichen, des Lustigen, des Lächerlichen. Dies ist die Ursache, warum so schwer darüber zu reden ist
Die Meisterhaft gilt oft für Egoismus
Die Menge macht den Künstler irr' und scheu
Die Menschen fürchtet nur, wer sie nicht kennt, / Und wer sie meidet, wird sie bald verkennen
Die Menschen kennen einander nicht leicht, selbst mit dem besten Willen und Vorsatz; nun tritt noch der böse Wille hinzu, der Alles entstellt
Die Menschen sind im ganzen Leben blind
Die Menschheit geben uns Vater und Mutter, die Menschlichkeit aber gibt uns nur die Erziehung
Die Milde ziemt dem Weibe, / Dem Manne
ziemt die Rache!
Die Mode ist weiblichen Geschlechts, hat folglich ihre Launen
Die monarchische Regierungsform ist die dem Menschen natürliche
Die Moral steckt in kurzen Sprüchen besser, als in langen Reden und Predigten
Diem perdidi!
Die Mütter geben uns von Geiste Wärme, und die Väter Licht
Die Natur ist ein unendlich geteilter Gott
Die Natur weiss allein, was sie will
Die of a rose in aromatic pain.
Die Phantasie ward auserkoren / Zu öffnen
uns die reiche Wunderwelt
Die Rachegötter schaffen im Stillen
Dies adimit ægritudinem
Die Schönheit ist das höchste Princip und der höchste Zweck der Kunst
Die Schönheit ist vergänglich, die ihr doch / Allein zu ehren scheint. Was übrig bleibt, / Das reizt nicht mehr, und was nicht reizt, ist tot
Die Schönheit ruhrt, doch nur die Anmuth
sieget, / Und Unschuld nur behält den Preis
Die Schulden sind der nächste Erbe
Die Schwierigkeiten wachsen, je näher man dem Ziele kommt
Dies datus
Dies faustus
Dies infaustus
Die Sinne trügen nicht, aber das Urteil trügt
Dies iræ, dies illa, / Sæclum solvet in favilla / Teste David cum Sibylla
Dies non
Die Sorgen zu bannen, / (Das Unkraut des Geistes), den Kummer zu scheuchen, / Die Schmerzen zu lindern, / Ist Sache des Sängers
Die Sorg' um Künft'ges niemals frommt; Man
fühlt kein Uebel, bis es kommt. / Und wenn man's fühlt, so hilft kein Rat; / Weisheit ist immer zu früh und zu spat
Dies religiosi
Die süssesten Trauben hängen am höchsten
Diet cures more than doctors.
Die te veel onderneemt slaagt zelden
Die That allein beweist der Liebe Kraft
Die Thätigkeit ist was den Menschen glücklich macht; / Die, erst das Gute schaffend, bald ein Uebel selbst / Durch göttlich wirkende Gewalt in Gutes kehrt
Die Todten reiten schnell!
Die treue Brust des braven Manns allein ist ein sturmfester Dach in diesen Zeiten
Die Tugend des Menschen, der nach dem Geboten der Vernunft lebt, zeigt sich gleich gross in Vermeidung, wie in Ueberwindung der Gefahren
Die Tugend grosser Seelen ist Gerechtigkeit
Die Tugend ist das höchste Gut, / Das Laster Weh dem Menschen thut
Die Tugend ist nicht ein Wissen, sondern ein Wollen
Die Tugend ohne Lohn ist doppelt schön
Dieu aide à trois sortes de personnes, aux fous, aux enfants, et aux ivrognes
Dieu avec nous
Dieu ayde
Dieu défend le droit
Dieu donne le froid selon le drap
Dieu et mon droit
Dieu fit du repentir la vertu des mortels
Dieu garde la lune des loups
Dieu mésure le froid à la brebis tondue
Die unbegreiflich hohen Werke / Sind herrlich wie am ersten Tag
Dieu nous garde d'un homme qui n'a qu'une affaire
Die Unschuld hat im Himmel einen Freund
Die Unsterblichkeit ist nicht jedermann's Sache
Dieu pour la tranchée, qui contre?
Dieu seul devine les sots
Die veel dienstboden heeft, die heeft veel dieven
Die vernünftige Welt ist als ein grosses unsterbliches Individuum zu betrachten, das unaufhaltsam das Nothwendige bewirkt und dadurch sich sogar über das Zufällige zum Herrn macht
Die Vernunft ist auf das Werdende, der Verstand auf das Gewordene angewiesen; jene bekümmert sich nicht: wozu? dieser fragt nicht: woher?
Die Wacht am Rhein
Die Wahrheit richtet sich nicht nach uns, sondern wir müssen uns nach ihr richten
Die Wahrheit schwindet von der Erde / Auch
mit der Treu' ist es vorbei, / Die Hunde wedeln noch und stinken / Wie sonst, doch sind sie nicht mehr treu
Die Wahrheit zu sagen ist nützlich dem, der höret, schädlich dem der spricht
Die wankelmüt'ge Menge, / Die jeder Wind herumtreibt! Wehe dem, / Der auf dies Rohr sich lehnet
Die Weiber lieben die Stärke ohne sie nachzuahmen; die Männer die Zartheit, ohne sie zu erwiedern
Die Weiber meiden nichts so sehr als das Wörtchen Ja; wenigstens sagen sie es erst nach dem Nein
Die Weisen wägen ihre Worte mit der Goldwage
Die Weiseste merken höchstens nur wie das Schicksal sie leitet, und sind es zufrieden
Die Welt der Freiheit trägt der Mensch in seinem Innern. / Und Tugend ist der Freiheit Götterkind
Die Weltgeschichte ist das Weltgericht
Die Welt ist dumm die Welt ist blind, / Wird täglich abgeschmackter
Die Welt ist ein Gefängniss
Die Welt ist voller Widerspruch
Die Welt ist vollkommen überall, / Wo der Mensch nicht hinkommt mit seiner Qual
Die Worte sind gut, sie sind aber nicht das Beste. Das Beste wird nicht deutlich durch Worte
Die Zeiten der Vergangenheit / Sind uns ein Buch mit sieben Siegeln; / Was Ihr den Geist der Zeiten heisst / Das ist im Grund' der Herrn eigner Geist, / In dem die Zeiten sich bespiegeln
Die Zeit ist schlecht, doch giebt's noch grosse
Seelen!
Die Zukunft decket Schmerzen und Glücke
Different good, by art or nature given, / To different nations, makes their blessings even.
Different minds / Incline to different objects; one pursues / The vast alone, the wonderful, the wild; / Another sighs for harmony and grace, / And gentlest beauty.
Different times different manners.
Difficile est crimen non prodere vultu
Difficile est longum subito deponere amorem
Difficile est plurimum virtutem revereri, qui semper secunda fortuna sit usus
Difficile est proprie communia dicere
Difficile est satiram non scribere
Difficile est tristi fingere mente jocum
Difficilem oportet aurem habere ad crimina
Difficilia quæ pulchra
Difficilis, facilis, jucundus, acerbus es idem; / Nec tecum possum vivere, nec sine te
Difficilis in otio quies
Difficilius est sarcire concordiam quam rumpere
Difficult to sweep the intricate foul chimneys of law.
Difficulties are meant to rouse, not discourage.
Difficulties are things that show what men are.
Difficulties may surround our path, but if the difficulties be not in ourselves, they may generally be overcome.
Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labour does the body.
Difficulty, abnegation, martyrdom, death, are the allurements that act on the heart of man. Kindle the inner genial life of him, you have a flame that burns up all lower considerations.
Diffugiunt, cadis / Cum fæce siccatis, amici, / Ferre jugum pariter dolosi
Diffused knowledge immortalises itself.
Dignity and love do not blend well, nor do they continue long together.
Dignity consists not in possessing honours, but in deserving them.
Dignity is often a veil between us and the real truth of things.
Dignity of position adds to dignity of character, as well as dignity of carriage.
Dignum laude virum Musa vetat mori
Digressions in a book are like foreign troops in a state, which argue the nation to want a heart and hands of its own; and often either subdue the natives, or drive them into the most unfruitful corners.
Digressions incontestably are the sunshine; they are the life, the soul of reading.
Dii laboribus omnia vendunt
Dii majores et minores
Dii majorum gentium
Dii penates
Di irati laneos pedes habent
Dii rexque secundent
Diis aliter visum
Diis proximus ille est / Quem ratio, non ira
movet
Dilationes in lege sunt odiosæ
Dilettantism, hypothesis, speculation, a kind of amateur-search for truth, toying and coquetting with truth; this is the sorest sin, the root of all imaginable sins.
Dilexi justiciam et odi iniquitatem, propterea morior in exilio
Diligence increases the fruits of labour.
Diligence is the mother of good fortune.
Diligentia, qua una virtute omnes virtutes reliquæ continentur
Diligent, that includes all virtues in it a student can have.
Diligent working makes an expert workman.
Diligitur nemo, nisi cui fortuna secunda est
Dimidium facti, qui cœpit, habet
Ding (knock) down the nests, and the rooks will flee awa.
Dinna curse him, sir; I have heard a good man say that a curse was like a stone flung up to the heavens, and maist like to return on his head that sent it.
Dinna gut your fish till you get them.
Dinna lift me before I fa'.
Dinna scald your ain mou' wi ither folk's kail
(broth).
Di nos quasi pilas homines habent
Diogenes has well said that the only way to preserve one's liberty was being always ready to die without pain.
Dios es el que sana, y el médico lleva la plata
Dios me dé contienda con quien me entienda
Di picciol uomo spesso grand' ombra
Dira necessitas
Dirigo
Dirt is not dirt, but only something in the wrong place.
Diruit, ædificat, mutat quadrata rotundis
Dir war das Unglück eine strenge Schule
Disappointment is often the salt of life.
Disasters, do the best we can, / Will reach both great and small; / And he is oft the wisest man / Who is not wise at all.
Disce aut discede
Disce pati
Disce, puer, virtutem ex me, verumque laborem,
/ Fortunam ex aliis
Disciplined inaction.
Discipulus est prioris posterior dies
Discite justitiam moniti, et non temnere divos
Discit enim citius, meminitque libentius illud / Quod quis deridet quam quod probat et veneratur
Discontent is like ink poured into water, which
fills the whole fountain full of blackness. It casts a cloud over the mind, and renders it more occupied about the evil which disquiets it than about the means of removing it.
Discontent is the want of self-reliance; it is infirmity of will.
Discontent makes us to lose what we have; contentment gets us what we want. Fretting never removed a cross nor procured a comfort; quiet submission doth both.
Discontents are sometimes the better part of our life.
Discord oft in music makes the sweeter lay.
Discreet women have neither eyes nor ears.
Discrepant facta cum dictis
Discretion / And hard valour are the twins of honour, / And, nursed together, make a conqueror; / Divided, but a talker.
Discretion is the perfection of reason, and a guide to us in all the duties of life.
Discretion is the salt, and fancy the sugar, of life; the one preserves, the other sweetens it.
Discretion of speech is more than eloquence,
and to speak agreeably to him with whom we deal is more than to speak in good words or in good order.
Discretion, the best part of valour.
Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eye, / Misprising what they look on.
Diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth / In strange eruptions, and the teeming earth / Is with a kind of cholic pinch'd and vex'd / By the imprisoning of unruly wind / Within her womb, which, for enlargement striving, / Shakes the old bedlam earth, and topples down / Steeples and moss-grown towers.
Diseases, desperate grown, / By desperate appliance are relieved, / Or not at all.
Diseur de bons mots
Diseuse de bonne aventure
Disgrace consists infinitely more in the crime than in the punishment.
Disguise our bondage as we will, / 'Tis woman, woman rules us still.
Disguise thyself as thou wilt, still, Slavery, thou art a bitter draught.
Dishonesty is the forsaking of permanent for
temporary advantages.
Dishonest men conceal their faults from themselves as well as others; honest men know and confess them.
Dishonesty will stare honesty out of countenance any day in the week, if there is anything to be got by it.
Dishonour waits on perfidy. The villain / Should blush to think a falsehood; 'tis the crime / Of cowards.
Disillusion is the chief characteristic of old age.
Disjecta membra
Disjecti membra poetæ
Disjice compositam pacem, sere crimina belli
Dismiss your vows, your feigned tears, your flattery; / For where a heart is hard, they make no battery.
Disobedience is the beginning of evil and the broad way to ruin.
Disorder in a drawing-room is vulgar; in an
antiquary's study, not; the black stain on a soldier's face is not vulgar, but the dirty face of a housemaid is.
Disorder is dissolution, death.
Disorder makes nothing at all, but unmakes everything.
Disponendo me, non mutando me
Disputandi pruritus ecclesiarum scabies
Dissensions, like small streams at first begun, /
Unseen they rise, but gather as they run.
Dissimulation in youth is the forerunner of perfidy in old age.
Dissimulation is but faint policy, for it asketh a strong wit and a strong heart to know when to tell the truth and to do it.
Distance produces in idea the same effect as in real perspective.
Distance sometimes endears friendship, and absence sweeteneth it.
Distinction is an eminence that is attained but
too frequently at the expense of a fireside.
Distinction is the consequence, never the object, of a great mind.
Distinction, with a broad and powerful fan / Puffing at all, winnows the light away.
Distingué
Distinguished talents are not necessarily connected with discretion.
Distortion is the agony of weakness. It is the
dislocated mind whose movements are spasmodic.
Distrahit animum librorum multitudo
Distrait
Distressed valour challenges great respect, even from enemies.
Distringas
Distrust and darkness of a future state /
Make poor mankind so fearful of their fate, / Death in itself is nothing; but we fear / To be we know not what, we know not where.
Dites-moi ce que tu manges, je te dirai ce que tu es
Ditissimus agris
Di tutte le arti maestro è amore
Diversité, c'est ma devise
Dives agris, dives positis in fœnore nummis
Dives aut iniquus est aut iniqui hæres
Dives est, cui tanta possessio est, ut nihil optet amplius
Dives qui fieri vult, / Et cito vult fieri
Divide et impera
Divina natura dedit agros, ars humana ædificavit
urbes
Divination seems heightened to its highest power in woman.
Divine love is a sacred flower, which in its early bud is happiness, and in its full bloom is heaven.
Divine moment, when over the tempest-tossed soul, as over the wild-weltering chaos, it was spoken: Let there be light. Even to the greatest that has felt such a moment, is it not miraculous and God-announcing; even as, under simpler figures, to the humblest and least?
Divine Philosophy, by whose pure light / We first distinguish, then pursue the right; / Thy power the breast from every error frees, / And weeds out all its vices by degrees.
Divine
to mean divine
Divines but peep on undiscovered worlds, / And draw the distant landscape as they please.
Divinity should be empress, and philosophy and other arts merely her servants.
Divitiæ grandes homini sunt, vivere parce / Æquo animo
Divitiæ virum faciunt
Divitiarum et formæ gloria fluxa atque fragilis;
virtus clara æternaque habetur
Divitis servi maxime servi
Divorce from this world is marriage with the next.
Dla przyjaciela nowego / Nie opuszczaj starego!
Do as others do, and few will laugh at you.
Do as the bee does with the rose, take the
honey and leave the thorn.
Do as the lassies do; say "No" and tak' it.
Dobrze to w kazdym znale['s]['c] przyjaciela!
Docendo discimus
Dochters zijn broze waren
Doch werdet ihr nie Herz zu Herzen schaffen /
Wenn es auch nicht von Herzen geht
Dociles imitandis / Turpibus ac pravis omnes sumus
Docti rationem artis intelligunt, indocti voluptatem
Doctor Luther's shoes don't fit every village priest.
Doctor utriusque legis
Doctrina sed vim promovet insitam / Rectique
cultus pectora roborant
Doctrine is nothing but the skin of truth set up and stuffed.
Does Homer interest us now, because he wrote of what passed beyond his native Greece, and two centuries before he was born; or because he wrote what passed in God's world, which is the same after thirty centuries?
Do faita dicha, por demas es diligencia
Dogmatic jargon, learn'd by heart, / Trite sentences, hard terms of art, / To vulgar ears seem so profound, / They fancy learning in the sound.
Do good and throw it into the sea; if the fish
know it not, the Lord will.
Do good by stealth, and blush to find it fame.
Do good to thy friend to keep him, to thy enemy to gain him.
Dogs should not be taught to eat leather (so indispensable for leashes and muzzles).
Dogs that bark at a distance ne'er bite at hand.
Doing good is the only certainly happy action
of a man's life.
Doing is activity; and he will still be doing.
Doing is the great thing; for if people resolutely do what is right, they come in time to like doing it.
Doing leads more surely to saying than saying to doing.
Doing nothing is doing ill.
Dolce far niente
Dolci cose a vedere, e dolci inganni
Dolendi modus, timendi non autem
Doli non doli sunt, nisi astu colas
Dolium volvitur
Dolori affici, sed resistere tamen
Dolus an virtus, quis in hoste requirat?
Dolus versatur in generalibus
Domandar chi nacque prima, l'uovo o la gallina
Domestic happiness is the end of almost all our pursuits, and the common reward of all our pains.
Domestic happiness! thou only bliss / Of happiness
that has survived the Fall.
Domi manere convenit felicibus
Domine, dirige nos
Domini pudet, non servitutis
Dominus illuminatio mea
Dominus providebit
Dominus videt plurimum in rebus suis
Dominus vobiscum, et cum spiritu tuo
Domitæ naturæ
Domus amica domus optima
Domus et placens uxor
Domus sua cuique tutissimum refugium
Dona præsentis cape lætus horæ, et / Linque severa
Donatio mortis causa
Don de plaire
Donec eris felix multos numerabis amicos; /
Tempora si fuerint nubila, solus eris
Done to death by slanderous tongues.
Donna di finestra, uva di strada
Donna è mobile come piume in vento
Donner de si mauvaise grâce qu'on n'a pas d'obligation
Donner une chandelle à Dieu et une au diable
Donnez, mais, si vous pouvez, épargnez au pauvre, la honte de tendre la main
Dono dedit
Do not allow your daughters to be taught letters by a man, though he be a St. Paul or a St Francis of Assisi. The saints are in heaven.
Do not ask if a man has been through college. Ask if a college has been through him.
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do, / Show
me the steep and thorny way to heaven, / Whilst, like a puffed and reckless libertine, / Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads, / And recks not his own rede.
Do not flatter your benefactors.
Do not, for one repulse, forego the purpose / That you resolv'd to effect.
Do not give dalliance / Too much the rein; the strongest oaths are straw / To the fire i' the blood. Be more abstemious, / Or else good night your vow.
Do not halloo till you are out of the wood.
Do not lose the present in vain perplexities
about the future. If fortune lours to-day, she may smile to-morrow.
Do not refuse the employment which the hour brings you for one more ambitious.
Do not talk Arabic in the house of a Moor.
Do not tell a friend anything that you would conceal from an enemy.
Do not think of one falsity as harmless, and one as slight, and another as unintended. Cast them all aside; it is better our hearts should be swept clean of them.
Do not train boys to learning by force or harshness;
but direct them to it by what amuses their minds, so that you may be the better able to discover with accuracy the peculiar bent of the genius of each.
Do not trouble yourself too much about the light on your statue; the light of the public square will test its value.
Don't be a cynic and disconsolate preacher. Don't bewail and moan. Omit the negative propositions. Nerve us with incessant affirmatives. Don't waste yourself in rejection, nor bark against the bad, but chant the beauty of the good.
Don't be "consistent," but be simply true.
Don't budge, if you are at ease where you are.
Don't despise a slight wound or a poor relative.
Don't dissipate your powers; strive constantly to concentrate them. Genius thinks it can do whatever it sees others doing, but it is sure to repent of every ill-judged outlay.
Don terrible de la familiarité
Don't fly till your wings are fledged.
Don't hate; only pity and avoid those that follow lies.
Don't put too fine a point to your wit, for fear
it should get blunted.
Don't quit the highway for a short cut.
Don't reckon your chickens before they are hatched.
Don't throw away the old shoes till you've got new ones.
Donum exitiale Minervæ
Do on the hill as ye do in the ha'.
Do right; though pain and anguish be thy lot, / Thy heart will cheer thee when the pain's forgot; / Do wrong for pleasure's sake, then count thy gains, / The pleasure soon departs, the sin remains.
Dormit aliquando jus, moritur nunquam
Dormiunt aliquando leges, nunquam moriuntur
Dos d'âne
Dos est magna parentum / Virtus
Dos est uxoria lites
Dos linajes solo hay en el mundo, el "tener" y el "no tener"
Dost thou love life? Then do not squander
time, for that is the stuff life is made of.
Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say aye; / And I will take thy word. Yet if thou swear'st, / Thou may'st prove false; at lovers' perjuries / They say Jove laughs.
Dost thou love pictures? We will fetch thee straight / Adonis painted by a running brook; / And Cytherea all in sedges hid; / Which seem to move and wanton with her breath; / Even as the waving sedges play with wind.
Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there are to be no more cakes and ale?
Do that which is assigned you, and you cannot hope too much or dare too much.
Do the duty that lies nearest to you. Every
duty which is bidden to wait returns with seven fresh duties at its back.
Do the duty which lies nearest to thee. Thy second duty will already have become clearer.
Do thine own task, and be therewith content.
Doth not the appetite alter? A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age.
Doth the eagle know what is in the pit, / Or wilt thou go ask the mole?
Do thy little well, and for thy comfort know, /
Great men can do their greatest work no better than just so.
Double, double, toil and trouble, / Fire burn, and caldron bubble.
Double, double toil and trouble; that is the life of all governors that really govern; not the spoil of victory, only the glorious toil of battle can be theirs.
Double entendre
Double entente
Doubting the reality of love leads to doubting
everything.
Doubting things go ill often hurts more / Than to be sure they do.
Doubt is an incentive to truth, and patient inquiry leadeth the way.
Doubt is the abettor of tyranny.
Doubt is the vestibule which all must pass before they can enter into the temple of wisdom.
Doubtless the pleasure is as great / Of being
cheated as to cheat.
Doubt of any sort cannot be removed except by action.
Doubt thou the stars are fire; / Doubt that the sun doth move; / Doubt truth to be a liar; / But never doubt I love.
Douceur
Do ut des
Doux yeux
Dove bisognan rimedj, il sospirar non vale
Dove è grand'amore, quivi è gran dolore
Dove è il Papa, ivi è Roma
Dove è l'amore, là è l'occhio
Dove entra il vino, esce la vergogna
Dove la voglia è pronta, le gambe son leggiere
Do weel and doubt nae man; do ill and doubt a' men.
Do we not all submit to death? The highest sentence of the law, sentence of death, is passed on all of us by the fact of birth; yet we live patiently under it, patiently undergo it when the hour comes.
Dower'd with the hate of hate, the scorn of scorn, / The love of love.
Do what he will, he cannot realise / Half he
conceives--the glorious vision flies; / Go where he may, he cannot hope to find / The truth, the beauty pictured in the mind.
Do what we can, summer will have its flies; if we go a-fishing, we must expect a wet coat.
Down, thou climbing sorrow; / Thy element's below.
Downward to climb and backward to advance.
Downy sleep, death's counterfeit.
Do you think the porter and the cook have no
anecdotes, no experiences, no wonders for you?
Do you wish to find out the really sublime? Repeat the Lord's Prayer.
Dramatis personæ
Draw thyself from thyself.
Dream after dream ensues, / And still they dream that they shall still succeed / And still are disappointed.
Dream delivers us to dream, and there is no
end to illusion.
Dreams are but interludes which fancy makes. / When monarch reason sleeps, this mimic wakes; / Compounds a medley of disjointed things, / A mob of cobblers and a court of kings; / Light fumes are merry, grosser fumes are sad; / Both are the reasonable soul run mad.
Dreams are excursions into the limbo of things, a semi-deliverance from the human prison.
Dreams are the bright creatures of poem and legend, who sport on the earth in the night season, and melt away with the first beams of the sun.
Dreams are the children of an idle brain, / Begot of nothing but vain phantasy; / Which are as thin of substance as the air, / And more inconstant than the wind.
Dreams, books, are each a world; and books, we know, / Are a substantial world, both pure and good; / Round these, with tendrils strong as flesh and blood, / Our pastime and our happiness will grow.
Dreams, indeed, are ambition; for the substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
Dreams, in general, take their rise from those incidents that have occurred during the day.
Dreams in their development have breath /
And tears and torture and the touch of joy; / They leave a weight upon our waking thoughts; / They take a weight from off our waking toils; / They do divide our being; they become a portion of ourselves as of our time, / And look like heralds of eternity.
Dreigers vechten niet
Dress has a moral effect upon the conduct of mankind.
Drinking water neither makes a man sick nor in debt, nor his wife a widow.
Drink nothing without seeing it, sign nothing without reading it.
Drink not the third glass, which thou canst
not tame / When once it is within thee; but before, / May'st rule it as thou list; and pour the shame, / Which it would pour on thee, upon the floor.
Drink to me only with thine eyes, / And I will pledge with mine; / Or leave a kiss but in the cup, / And I'll not look for wine.
Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own well.
Drive a coach and six through an act of parliament.
Drive a cow to the ha', and she'll run to the byre.
Drive thy business, let not thy business drive
thee.
Droit d'aubaine
Droit des gens
Droit et avant
Droit et loyal
Drones hive not with me.
Drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags.
Drudgery and knowledge are of kin, / And both descended from one parent sin.
Drunkenness is the vice of a good constitution or of a bad memory;--of a constitution so treacherously good than it never bends till it breaks; or of a memory that recollects the pleasures of getting intoxicated, but forgets the pains of getting sober.
Drunkenness is voluntary madness.
Dry light is ever the best
Dry shoes won't catch fish.
Duabus sedere sellis
Du bist am Ende was du bist
Dubitando ad veritatem pervenimus
Dubiam salutem qui dat afflictis, negat
Ducats are clipped, pennies are not.
Duce et auspice
Duces tecum
Duce tempus eget
Du choc des esprits jaillissent les étincelles
Ducis ingenium, res / Adversæ nudare solent, celare secundæ
Ducit amor patriæ
Du côté de la barbe est la toute-puissance
Ductor dubitantium
Ducunt volentem fata, nolentem trahunt
Du fort au faible
Du glaubst zu schieben und du wirst geschoben
Du gleichst dem Geist, den du begreifst / Nicht mir
Du hast das nicht, was andre haben, /
Und andern mangeln deine Gabe; / Aus dieser Unvollkommenheit / Entspringt die Geselligkeit
Du haut de ces pyramides quarante siècles nous contemplent
Dulce domum
Dulce est desipere in loco
Dulce est miseris socios habuisse doloris
Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori
Dulce periculum
Dulce sodalitium
Dulcibus est verbis alliciendus amor
Dulcique animos novitate tenebo
Dulcis amor patriæ, dulce videre suos
Dulcis inexpertis cultura potentis amici; / Expertus metuit
Dull, conceited hashes, / Confuse their brains in college classes; / They gang in stirks, and come oot asses, / Plain truth to speak.
Dull not device by coldness and delay.
Dumb dogs and still waters are dangerous.
Dumbie winna lee.
Dumb jewels often, in their silent kind, / More than quick words do move a woman's mind.
Dum deliberamus quando incipiendum incipere jam serum est
Dum fata fugimus, fata stulti incurrimus
Dum in dubio est animus, paulo momento huc illuc impellitur
Dum lego, assentior
Dum loquor, hora fugit
Dummodo morata recte veniat, dotata est satis
Dummodo sit dives, barbarus ipse placet
Dum ne ob malefacta peream, parvi æstimo
Du moment qu'on aime, on devient si doux
Dum se bene gesserit
Dum singuli pugnant, universi vincuntur
Dum spiro, spero
Dum tacent, clamant
Du musst steigen oder sinken, / Du musst herrschen
und gewinnen, / Oder dienen und verlieren, / Leiden oder triumphiren, / Amboss oder Hammer sein
Dum vires annique sinunt, tolerate labores: / Jam veniet tacito curva senecta pede
Dum vitant stulti vitia, in contraria currunt
Dum vivimus, vivamus
D'une vache perdue, c'est quelque chose de recouvrer la queue
Duo quum faciunt idem non est idem
Duos qui sequitur lepores neutrum capit
Dupes indeed are many; but of all dupes there is none so fatally situated as he who lives in undue terror of being duped.
Durante beneplacito
Durante vita
Dura più incudine che il martello
Durate, et vosmet rebus servate secundis
Durch Vernünfteln wird Poesie vertrieben / Aber sie mag das Vernüftige lieben
Durum et durum non faciunt murum
Durum! Sed levius fit patientia / Quicquid corrigere est nefas
Durum telum necessitas
Du sollst mit dem Tode zufrieden sein. / Warum machst du dir das Leben zur Pein?
Dusting, darning, drudging, nothing is great or small, / Nothing is mean or irksome: love will hallow it all.
Dust long outlasts the storied stone.
Dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return.
Du sublime au ridicule il n'y a qu'un pas
Dutchmen must have wide breeches.
Duties are but coldly performed which are but philosophically fulfilled.
Duties are ours; events are God's.
Duty by habit is to pleasure turn'd; / He is content who to obey has learn'd.
Duty demands the parent's voice / Should sanctify
the daughter's choice, / In that is due obedience shown; / To choose belongs to her alone.
Duty, especially out of the domain of love, is the veriest slavery in the world.
Duty has the virtue of making us feel the reality of a positive world, while at the same time it detaches us from it.
Duty is a power which rises with us in the morning, and goes to bed with us in the evening.
Duty is the demand of the passing hour.
Duty scorns prudence, and criticism has few
terrors for a man with a great purpose.
Duty--the command of Heaven, the eldest voice of God.
Dux fœmina facti
Each animal out of its habitat would starve.
Each change of many-colour'd life he drew, / Exhausted worlds, and then imagined new.
Each creature is only a modification of the other; the likeness in them is more than the difference, and their radical law is one and the same.
Each creature seeks its perfection in another.
Each day still better other's happiness, / Until
the heavens, envying earth's good hap, / Add an immortal title to your crown.
Each departed friend is a magnet that attracts us to the next world, and the old man lives among graves.
Each good thought or action moves / The dark world nearer to the sun.
Each heart is a world. You find all within yourself that you find without. The world that surrounds you is the magic glass of the world within you.
Each human heart can properly exhibit but one love, if even one; the "first love, which is infinite," can be followed by no second like unto it.
Each in his narrow cell for ever laid,/ The rude
forefathers of the hamlet sleep.
Each man begins the world afresh, and the last man repeats the blunders of the first.
Each man can learn something from his neighbour; at least he can learn to have patience with him--to live and let live.
Each man has his fortune in his own hands, as the artist has a piece of rude matter, which he is to fashion into a certain shape.
Each man has his own vocation; his talent is his call. There is one direction in which all space is open to him.
Each man sees over his own experience a
certain stain of error, whilst that of other men looks fair and ideal.
Each man's chimney is his golden milestone, is the central point from which he measures every distance through the gateways of the world around him.
Each mind has its own method. A true man never acquires after college rules.
Each must stand on his glass tripod, if he would keep his electricity.
Each one of us here, let the world go how it will, and be victorious or not victorious, has he not a life of his own to lead?
Each particle of matter is an immensity, each
leaf a world, each insect an inexplicable compendium.
Each plant has its parasite, and each created thing its lover and poet.
Each present joy or sorrow seems the chief.
Each sin at heart is Deicide.
Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows, / Which show like grief itself, but are not so; / For sorrow's eye, glazed with blinding tears, / Divides one thing entire to many objects.
Each thing is a half, and suggests another thing
to make it whole; as spirit, matter; man, woman; odd, even; subjective, objective; in, out; motion, rest; yea, nay.
Each thing lives according to its kind; the heart by love, the intellect by truth, the higher nature of man by intimate communion with God.
Each year one vicious habit rooted out, in time might make the worst man good.
Ea fama vagatur
Eagles fly alone; they are but sheep that always herd together.
Eamus quo ducit gula
Early and provident fear is the mother of safety.
Early birds catch the worms.
Early, bright, transient, chaste, as morning dew, / She sparkled, was exhaled, and went to heaven.
Early master soon knave (servant).
Early start makes easy stages.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
Earn well the thrifty months, nor wed / Raw Haste, half-sister to Delay.
Earnest and sport go well together.
Earnestness alone makes life eternity.
Earnestness in life, even when carried to an
extreme, is something very noble and great.
Earnestness is a quality as old as the heart of man.
Earnestness is enthusiasm tempered by reason.
Earnestness is the cause of patience; it gives endurance, overcomes pain, strengthens weakness, braves dangers, sustains hope, makes light of difficulties, and lessens the sense of weariness in overcoming them.
Earnestness is the devotion of all the faculties.
Earth changes, but thy soul and God stand
sure.
Earth felt the wound; and Nature from her seat, / Sighing through all her work, gave sign of woe / That all was lost.
Earth has scarcely an acre that does not remind us of actions that have long preceded our own, and its clustering tombstones loom up like reefs of the eternal shore, to show us where so many human barks have struck and gone down.
Earth hath no sorrow that heaven cannot heal.
Earth hath nothing more tender than a woman's heart when it is the abode of piety.
Earth is here (in Australia) so kind, just tickle
her with a hoe and she laughs with a harvest.
Earthly pride is like a passing flower, that springs to fall and blossoms but to die.
Earth, sea, man, are all in each.
Earth, that's Nature's mother, is her tomb.
Earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust, in sure and certain hope of the Resurrection.
Earth, turning from the sun, brings night to man.
Earth with her thousand voices praises God.
Earth's crammed with heaven, / And every common bush afire with God.
Earth's noblest thing, a woman perfected.
Ease and honour are seldom bed-fellows.
Ea sola voluptas / Solamenque mali
East and west, home (hame) is best
Ea sub oculis posita negligimus; proximorum incuriosi, longinqua sectamur
Easy-crying widows take new husbands soonest; there's nothing like wet weather for transplanting.
Easy writing's curst hard reading.
Eat at your own table as you would eat at the table of the king.
Eat at your pleasure, drink in measure.
Eating little and speaking little can never do harm.
Eating the bitter bread of banishment.
Eat in measure and defy the doctor.
Eat to please thyself, but dress to please others.
Eat-weel's drink-weel's brither.
Eat what you like, but pocket nothing.
Eau bénite de cour
Eau sucrée
Ebbe il migliore / De' miei giorni la patria
E bello predicare il digiuno a corpo pieno
Eben die ausgezeichnetsten Menschen bedürfen der Religion am meisten, weil sie die engen Grenzen unseres menschlichen Verstandes am liebhaftesten empfinden
Eben wo Begriffe fehlen, / Da stellt ein Wort zur rechten Zeit sich ein
E buon comprare quando un altro vuol vendere
Ecce homo
Ecce iterum Crispinus!
Eccentricity has always abounded when and where strength of character has abounded; and the amount of eccentricity in a society has been proportional to the amount of genius, mental vigour, and moral courage it contained. That so few now dare to be eccentric, marks the chief danger of the time.
Eccentricity is sometimes found connected with genius, but it does not coalesce with true wisdom.
Ecce signum
Eccovi l'uom ch' è stato all'Inferno
Echoes we: listen! / We cannot stay, / As dewdrops glisten, / Then fade away.
Echo is the voice of a reflection in a mirror.
Eclaircissement
Eclat de rire
E cœlo descendit
Economy does not consist in the reckless reduction of estimates; on the contrary, such a course almost necessarily tends to increased expenditure. There can be no economy where there is no efficiency.
Economy is an excellent lure to betray people into expense.
Economy is half the battle of life; it is not so
hard to earn money as to spend it.
Economy is the parent of integrity, of liberty, and of ease, and the beauteous sister of temperance, of cheerfulness, and health.
Economy no more means saving money than it means spending money. It means the administration of a house, its stewardship; spending or saving, that is, whether money or time, or anything else, to the best possible advantage.
E contra
E contrario
Ecorcher l'anguille par la queue
Ecrasons l'infâme
Edel ist, der edel thut
Edel macht das Gemüth, nicht das Geblüt
Edel sei der Mensch / Hülfreich und gut / Denn das allein / Unterscheidet ihn / Von allen Wesen / Die wir kennen
Edition de luxe
Editiones expurgatæ
Editio princeps
Edo, ergo ego sum
Educated persons should share their thoughts with the uneducated, and take also a certain part in their labours.
Educate men without religion, and you make them but clever devils.
Education alone can conduct us to that enjoyment
which is at once best in quality and infinite in quantity.
Education begins its work with the first breath of the child.
Education begins the gentleman, but reading, good company, and reflection must finish him.
Education commences at the mother's knee, and every word spoken within the hearing of little children tends towards the formation of character.
Education does not mean teaching people to know what they do not know; it means teaching them to behave as they do not behave.
Education gives fecundity of thought, copiousness
of illustration, quickness, vigour, fancy, words, images, and illustrations; it decorates every common thing, and gives the power of trifling without being undignified and absurd.
Education, however indispensable in a cultivated age, produces nothing on the side of genius. Where education ends, genius often begins.
Education is a better safeguard of liberty than a standing army.
Education is generally the worse in proportion to the wealth and grandeur of the parents.
Education is only like good culture; it changes the size, but not the sort.
Education is only second to nature.
Education is our only political safety. Outside of this ark all is deluge.
Education is the apprenticeship of life.
Education is the constraining and directing of youth towards that right reason which the law affirms, and which the experience of the best of our elders has sanctioned as truly great.
Education is the only interest worthy the deep, controlling anxiety of the thoughtful man.
Education is the leading human souls to what
is best, and making what is best of them. The training which makes men happiest in themselves also makes them most serviceable to others.
Education may work wonders as well in warping the genius of individuals as in seconding it.
Education of youth is not a bow for every man to shoot in that counts himself a teacher, but will require sinews almost equal to those which Homer gave Ulysses.
Education ought, as a first principle, to stimulate the will to activity.
Education should be as broad as man.
Een diamant van eene dochter wordt een glas van eene vrouw
Een dief maakt gelegenheid
E'en from the tomb the voice of Nature cries, / E'en in our ashes live their wonted fires.
Een hond aan een been kent geene vrienden
Een kleine pot wordt haast heet
Eenmaal is geen gewoonte
Een once geduld is meer dan een pond verstand
E'en though vanquished he could argue still.
Effloresco
Effodiuntur opes, irritamenta malorum
Efforts, to be permanently useful, must be uniformly joyous,--a spirit all sunshine,--graceful from very gladness,--beautiful because bright.
Effugit mortem, quisquis contempserit: timidissimum quemque consequitur
E flamma cibum petere
Efter en god Avler kommer en god Oder
Eftsoons they heard a most melodious sound.
E fungis nati homines
Egad! I think the interpreter is the hardest to be understood of the two.
Egen Arne er Guld værd
Eggs and oaths are easily broken.
Eggs of an hour, bread of a day, wine of a year, but a friend of thirty years is best.
Egli ha fatto il male, ed io mi porto la pena
Egli vende l'uccello in su la frasca
Egli venderebbe sino alla sua parte del sole
Ego apros occido, alter fruitur pulpamento
Ego de caseo loquor, tu de creta respondes
Ego ero post principia
Ego et rex meus
Ego hoc feci
Egoism is the source and summary of all faults
and miseries whatsoever.
Ego meorum solus sum meus
Ego nec studium sine divite vena, / Nec rude quid prosit video ingenium
Ego primam tollo, nominor quoniam Leo
Ego, si bonam famam mihi servasso, sat ero dives
Ego spem pretio non emo
Ego sum, ergo omnia sunt
Ego sum rex Romanus et supra grammaticam
Egotism erects its centre in itself; love places it out of itself in the axis of the universal whole.
Egotism is the tongue of vanity.
Egotists are the pest of society.
Egotists cannot converse; they talk to themselves only.
Egregii mortalem, altique silenti
Eher schätzet man das Gute / Nicht, als bis man es verlor
Ehestand, Wehestand
Eheu! fugaces, Posthume, Posthume, / Labuntur
anni, nec pietas moram / Rugis et instanti senectæ / Afferet, indomitæque morti
Eheu! quam brevibus pereunt ingentia causis!
Ehren und Leben / Kann Niemand zurück geben
Ehret die Frauen! Sie flechten und weben / Himmlische Rosen ins irdische Leben
Ehret die Frauen! Sie stricken und weben / Wollene Strümpfe fürs frostige Leben
Ehrlich währt am längsten
Eident (diligent) youth makes easy age.
Eifersucht ist eine Leidenschaft, die mit Eifer sucht was Leiden schafft
Eigenliebe macht die Augen trübe
"Ei ist Ei," sagte der Küster, aber er nahm
das Gans Ei
Eild and poortith are ill to thole
Eild should hae honour
Eile mit Weile
Ein alter Fuchs läuft nicht zum zweiten Mal in's Garn
Ein Arzt darf auch dem Feind sich nicht
entziehen
Ein Augenblick, gelebt im Paradiese, / Wird nicht zu theuer mit dem Tod gebüsst
Einbildungskraft wird nur durch Kunst, besonders durch Poesie geregelt. Es ist nichts fürchterlicher als Einbildungskraft ohne Geschmack
Einbläsereien sind der Teufels Redekunst
Ein Diadem erkämpfen ist gross; es wegwerfen ist göttlich
Ein Ding ist nicht bös, wenn man es gut
versteht
Eine Bresche ist jeder Tag, / Die viele Menschen erstürmen; / Wer da auch fallen mag, / Die Todten sich niemals thürmen
Ein edler Mann wird durch ein gutes Wort / Der Frauen weit geführt
Ein edler Mensch zieht edle Menschen an / Und weiss sie fest zu halten
Ein edles Beispiel macht die schweren Thaten leicht
Eine grosse Epoche hat das Jahrhundert
geboren; / Aber der grosse Moment findet ein kleines Geschlecht
Eine Hälfte der Welt verlacht die andere
Eine Handvoll Gewalt ist besser als Sackvoll Recht
Ein eigen Herd, ein braves Weib, sind Gold und Perlen werth
Einen Wahn verlieren macht weiser als eine Wahrheit finden
Einer kann reden und Sieben können singen
Einer neuen Wahrheit nichts ist schädlicher als ein alter Irrtum
Eine Rose gebrochen, ehe der Sturm sie entblättert
Eine schöne Menschenseele finden / Ist Gewinn
Ein Esel schimpft den andern Langohr
Eines schickt sich nicht für Alle! / Sehe jeder wie er's treibe, / Sehe jeder wo er bleibe, / Und wer steht, dass er nicht falle
Ein Feind ist zu viel, und hundert Freunde sind zu wenig
Ein fester Blick, ein hoher Mut, / Die sind zu allen Zeiten gut
Ein geistreich aufgeschlossenes Wort / Wirkt
auf die Ewigkeit.
Eingestandene Uebereilung ist oft lehrreicher, als kalte überdachte Unfehlbarkeit
Ein Gift, welches nicht gleich wirkt, ist darum kein minder gefährliches Gift
Ein Gott ist, ein heiliger Wille lebt, / Wie auch der menschliche wanke; / Hoch über der Zeit und dem Raume webt / Lebendig der höchste Gedanke
Ein grosser Fehler; dass man sich mehr dünkt als man ist, und sich weniger schätzt, als man werth ist
Ein Herz das sich mit Sorgen quält / Hat
selten frohe Stunden
Ein jeder ist sich selbst der grösste Feind
Ein jeder lebt's, nicht vielen ist's bekannt
Ein jeder lernet nur, was er lernen kann; / Doch der den Augenblick ergreift, / Das ist der rechte Mann
Ein jeder Wechsel schreckt den Glücklichen
Ein Komödiant könnt' einen Pfarren lehren
Ein Kranz ist gar viel leichter binden / Als ihm ein würdig Haupt zu finden
Ein langes Hoffen ist süsser, als ein kurzes Ueberraschen
Ein leerer Sack steht nicht aufrecht
Ein mächtiger Vermittler ist der Tod
Einmal gerettet, ist's für tausend Male
Ein Mann der recht zu wirken denkt / Muss auf das beste Werkzeug halten
Ein Mann, ein Wort; ein Wort, ein Mann
Ein Mensch ohne Verstand ist auch ein Mensch ohne Wille
Ein Mühlstein wird nicht moosig
Ein niedrer Sinn ist stolz im Glück, im Leid
bescheiden; / Bescheiden ist im Glück ein edler, stolz im Leiden
Ein "Nimm hin" ist besser als zehn "Helf Gott"
Ein offenes Herz zeigt eine offene Stirn
Ein Pfennig mit Recht ist besser denn tausend mit Unrecht
Ein Schauspiel für Götter, / Zwei Liebende zu sehn!
Ein Theil bin ich von jener Kraft, / Die stets
das Böse will und stets das Gute schafft
Ein Titel muss sie erst vertraulich machen
Ein Tropfen Hass, der in dem Freudenbecher / Zurückbleibt, macht den Segensdrank zum Gifte
Ein unterrichtetes Volk lässt sich leicht regieren
Ein üppig lastervolles Leben büsst sich / In Mangel und Erniedrigung allem
Ein Vater ernährt eher zehn Kinder, denn zehn
Kinder einen Vater
Ein Vergnügen erwarten ist auch ein Vergnügen
Ein Volk ohne Gesetze gleicht einem Menschen ohne Grundsätze
Ein vollkommener Widerspruch / Bleibt gleich geheimnissvoll für Kluge wie für Thoren
Ein Wahn der mich beglückt, / Ist eine Wahrheit wert die mich zu Boden drückt
Ein wandernd Leben / Gefällt der freien Dichterbrust
Ein wenig zu spät ist viel zu spät
Ein Wörtlein kann ihn fallen
Ein Wort nimmt sich, ein Leben nie zurück
Either sex alone is half itself.
Eith (quickly) learned, soon forgotten.
Ejusdem farinæ
Ejusdem generis
El agujero llama al ladron
El amor verdadero no sufre cosa encubierta
Elati animi comprimendi sunt
El corazon manda las carnes
El corazon no es traidor
El dar es honor, y el pedir dolor
El diablo saba mucho, porque es viejo
El dia que te casas, ó te matas ó te sanas
El Dorado
Elegance is necessary to the fine gentleman, dignity is proper to noblemen, and majesty to kings.
Elegit
Elephants endors'd with towers.
Elève le corbeau, il te crèvera les yeux
Elige eum cujus tibi placuit et vita et oratio
Elk het zijne is niet te veel
Ell and tell is gude merchandise
Elle a trop de vertus pour n'être pas chrétienne
Elle n'en fit point la petite bouche
Elle riait du bout des dents
El malo siempre piensa engaño
El mal que de tu boca sale, en tu seno se cae
El mal que no tiene cura es locura
Elocution is the adjustment of apt words and
sentiments to the subject in debate.
Eloignement
Eloquence, at its highest pitch, leaves little room for reason or reflection, but addresses itself entirely to the fancy or the affections, captivates the willing hearers, and subdues their understanding.
Eloquence is a pictorial representation of thought.
Eloquence is in the assembly, not in the speaker.
Eloquence is like flame: it requires matter to
feed on, motion to excite it, and it brightens as it burns.
Eloquence is the appropriate organ of the highest personal energy.
Eloquence is the child of knowledge. When the mind is full, like a wholesome river, it is also clear.
Eloquence is the language of nature, and cannot be learned in the schools.
Eloquence is the painting of thought; and thus those who, after having painted it, still add to it, make a picture instead of a portrait.
Eloquence is the poetry of prose.
Eloquence is the power to translate a truth into language perfectly intelligible to the person to whom you speak.
Eloquence is to the sublime as a whole to its part.
Eloquence must be grounded on the plainest narrative.
Eloquence shows the power and possibility of man.
Eloquence the soul, song charms the sense.
Eloquence, to produce her full effect, should start from the head of the orator, as Pallas from the brain of Jove, completely armed and equipped.
El pan comido, la compañia deshecha
El pie del dueño estierco para la heredad
El que trabaja, y madra, hila oro
El rey va hasta do poede, y no hasta do quiere
El rey y la patria
El rio pasado, el santo olvidádo
El sabio muda consejo, el necio no
El secreto á voces
El tiempo cura el enfermo, que ne el unguento
Elucet maxime animi excellentia magnitudoque in despiciendis opibus
El villano en su tierra, y el hidalgo donde quiera
Elysian beauty, melancholy grace, / Brought from a pensive through a happy place.
E mala cosa esser cattivo, ma è peggiore esser
conosciuto
Emas non quod opus est, sed quod necesse est: / Quod non opus est, asse carum est
Embarras de richesses
Embonpoint
E meglio aver oggi un uovo, che dimani una gallina
E meglio cader dalla finestra che dal tetto
E meglio dare che non aver a dare
E meglio domandar che errare
E meglio esse fortunato che savio
E meglio esse uccel di bosco che di gabbia
E meglio il cuor felice che la borsa
E meglio lasciare che mancare
E meglio perder la sella che il cavallo
E meglio sdrucciolare col piè che con la lingua
E meglio senza cibo restar che senz' onore
E meglio una volta che mai
E meglio un buon amico che cento parente
Emere malo quam rogare
Emerge from unnatural solitude, look abroad for wholesome sympathy, bestow and receive.
Emeritus
Emerson tells us to hitch our waggon to a star; and the star is without doubt a good steed, when once fairly caught and harnessed, but it takes an astronomer to catch it.
Emerson wants Emersonian epigrams from Carlyle, and Carlyle wants Carlylean thunder from Emerson. The thing which a man's nature calls him to do, what else is so well worth his doing?
Eminent positions are like the summits of rocks; only eagles and reptiles can get there.
Eminent stations make great men greater and little men less.
Emori nolo, sed me esse mortuum nihil curo
Emotion is always new.
Emotion is the atmosphere in which thought is steeped, that which lends to thought its tone or temperature, that to which thought is often indebted for half its power.
Emotion, not thought, is the sphere of music; and emotion quite as often precedes as follows thought.
Emotion turning back on itself, and not leading on to thought or action, is the element of madness.
Empfindliche Ohren sind, bei Mädchen so gut als bei Pferden, gute Gesundheitszeichen
Empires and nations flourish and decay, / By turns command, and in their turns obey.
Empires are only sandhills in the hour-glass of Time; they crumble spontaneously by the process of their own growth.
Empires flourish till they become commercial, and then they are scattered abroad to the four winds.
Empirical sciences prosecuted simply for their
own sake, and without a philosophic tendency, resemble a face without eyes.
Employment and hardships prevent melancholy.
Employment gives health, sobriety, and morals.
Employment is enjoyment.
Employment is Nature's physician, and is essential to human happiness.
Employ thy time well if thou meanest to gain
leisure, and, since you are not sure of a minute, throw not away an hour.
Empressement
Empta dolore docet experientia
Empty vessels make the most noise.
Emulation admires and strives to imitate great
actions; envy is only moved to malice.
Emulation, even in the brutes, is sensitively nervous; see the tremor of the thorough-bred racer before he starts.
E multis paleis paulum fructus collegi
Emunctæ naris
En ami
En amour comme en amitié, un tiers souvent nous embarrasse
En arrière
En attendant
En avant
En badinant
En beau
En bloc
En boca cerrada no entra mosca
En bon train
En buste
En cada tierra su uso
Encouragement after censure is as the sun
after a shower.
En cuéros
Endeavouring, by logical argument, to prove the existence of God, were like taking out a candle to look for the sun.
Endeavour not to settle too many habits at once, lest by variety you confound them, and so perfect none.
En dernier ressort
En déshabille
En Dieu est ma fiance
En Dieu est tout
Endurance is nobler than strength, and patience than beauty.
Endurance is the crowning quality, and patience all the passion, of great hearts.
En échelon
En effet
Ene i Raad, ene i Sorg
En el rio do no hay pezes por demas es echar redes
En émoi
Energy may be turned to bad uses; but more
good may always be made of an energetic nature than of an indolent and impassive one.
Energy will do anything that can be done in this world; no talents, no circumstances, no opportunities will make a two-legged animal a man without it.
En famille
Enfant gâté du monde qu'il gâtait
Enfants de famille
Enfants perdus
Enfants terribles
Enfant trouvé
Enfermer le loup dans la bergerie
En fin les renards se trouvent chez le pelletier
Enflamed with the study of learning and the admiration of virtue; stirred up with high hopes of living to be brave men and worthy patriots, dear to God, and famous to all ages.
En foule
England expects this day that every man shall do his duty.
England is a domestic country: here home is revered and the hearth sacred.
England is a paradise for women and a hell
for horses; Italy a paradise for horses and a hell for women.
England is safe if true within itself.
English speech, the sea that receives tributaries from every region under heaven.
En grace affié
En grande tenue
En habiles gens
Enjoying things which are pleasant, that is not the evil; it is the reducing of our moral self to slavery by them that is.
Enjoyment soon wearies both itself and us; effort, never.
Enjoyment stops when indolence begins.
Enjoy the blessings of this day, if God sends them, and the evils bear patiently and sweetly. For this day only is ours; we are dead to yesterday and we are not born to to-morrow.
Enjoy what God has given thee, and willingly
dispense with what thou hast not. Every condition has its own joys and sorrows.
Enjoy what thou hast inherited from thy sires if thou wouldst possess it; what we employ not is an oppressive burden; what the moment brings forth, that only can it profit by.
Enjoy when you can, and endure when you must.
Enjoy your little while the fool is seeking for more.
Enjoy your own life without comparing it with that of another.
En la cour du roi chacun y est pour soi
Enlarge not thy destiny; endeavour not to do more than is given thee in charge.
En la rose je fleuris
En mariage, comme ailleurs, contentement passe richesse
En masse
En mauvaise odeur
Ennemi ne s'endort
Ennui has perhaps made more gamblers than avarice, more drunkards than thirst, and perhaps as many suicides as despair.
Ennui is a growth of English root, though nameless in our language.
Ennui is a word which the French invented, though of all nations in Europe they know the least of it.
Ennui is our greatest enemy.
Ennui is the desire of activity without the fit means of gratifying the desire.
Ennui shortens life and bereaves the day of its
light.
Ennui, the parent of expensive and ruinous vices.
Enough is as good as a feast.
Enough is better than too much.
Enough is great riches.
Enough is the wild-goose-chase of most men's
lives.
Enough--no foreign foe could quell / Thy soul, till from itself it fell; / Yes, self-abasement paved the way / To villain bonds and despot sway.
Enough requires too much; too much craves more.
En papillote.
En parole je vis
En passant
En pension
En petit champ croît bien bon blé
En peu d'heure Dieu labeure
En plein jour
En potence
En présence
En queue
Enquire not what is in another man's pot.
En rapport
En règle
En resumé
En revanche
En route
En salvo está el que repica
Ense et aratro
En suite
En suivant la vérité
Entente cordiale
Enthusiasm begets enthusiasm.
Enthusiasm flourishes in adversity, kindles in
the hour of danger, and awakens to deeds of renown.
Enthusiasm gives life to what is invisible, and interest to what has no immediate action on our comfort in this world.
Enthusiasm imparts itself magnetically, and fuses all into one happy and harmonious unity of feeling and sentiment.
Enthusiasm is grave, inward, self-controlled; mere excitement, outward, fantastical, hysterical, and passing in a moment from tears to laughter.
Enthusiasm is the genius of sincerity, and truth accomplishes no victories without it.
Enthusiasm is the height of man; it is the
passing from the human to the divine.
Enthusiasm is the leaping lightning, not to be measured by the horse-power of the understanding.
Entienda primero, y habla postrero
Entire affection hateth nicer hands.
Entire love is a worship and cannot be angry.
Entourage
En toute chose il faut considérer la fin
Entre chien et loup
Entre deux vins
Entre esprit et talent il y a la proportion du
tout à sa partie
Entre le bon sens et le bon goût il y a la différence de la cause à son effet
Entre nos ennemis les plus à craindre sont souvent les plus petits
Entre nous
Entzwei und gebiete
Entzwei und gebiete! Tüchtig Wort: Verein'
und leite, Bessrer Hort
En vérité
En vérité l'amour ne saurait être profond, s'il n'est pas pur
En vieillissant on devient plus fou et plus sage
En villig Hielper töver ei til man beder
Envy, among other ingredients, has a mixture
of the love of justice in it. We are more angry at undeserved than at deserved good fortune.
Envy does not enter an empty house.
Envy feels not its own happiness but by comparison with the misery of others.
Envy, if surrounded on all sides by the brightness of another's prosperity, like the scorpion confined with a circle of fire, will sting itself to death.
Envy is a passion so full of cowardice and shame, that nobody ever had the confidence to own it.
Envy is ignorance.
Envy is littleness of soul.
Envy is more irreconcilable than hatred.
Envy is the antagonist of the fortunate.
Envy is the deformed and distorted offspring of egotism.
Envy is the most acid fruit that grows on the stock of sin, a fluid so subtle that nothing but the fire of divine love can purge it from the soul.
Envy, like the worm, never runs but to the fairest fruit; like a cunning bloodhound, it singles out the fattest deer in the flock.
Envy ne'er does a gude turn but when it means an ill ane.
Envy will merit as its shade pursue, / But, like a shadow, proves the substance true.
Eodem collyrio mederi omnibus
Eo instanti
Eo magis præfulgebat quod non videbatur
Epicuri de grege porcus
E pluribus unum
"Eppur si muove"
Equality
Equality
Eques ipso melior Bellerophonte
Equi et poetæ alendi, non saginandi
Equity is a roguish thing; for law we have a measure ... (but) equity is according to the conscience of him who is chancellor, and, as that is larger or narrower, so is equity.
Equity judges with lenity, laws with severity.
Equivocation is half way to lying, and lying is the whole way to hell.
Equo frænato est auris in ore
Equo ne credite, Teucri
Erant in officio, sed tamen qui mallent imperantium mandata interpretari, quam exsequi
Erase que se era
Erasmus laid the egg
and Luther hatched it.
Er, der einzige Gerechte / Will für Jedermann
das Rechte / Sei, von seinen hundert Namen, / Dieser hochgelobet!--Amen!
Ere sin could blight or sorrow fade, / Death came with friendly care, / The opening bud to heaven conveyed, / And bade it blossom there.
Ere we censure a man for seeming what he is not, we should be sure that we know what he is.
Er geht herum, wie die Katze um den heissen Brei
Erfahrung bleibt des Lebens Meisterin
Erfüllte Pflicht empfindet sich immer noch als Schuld, weil man sich nie ganz genug gethan
Er hat noch nie die Stimme der Natur gehört
Eripe te moræ
Eripe turpi / Colla jugo. Liber, liber sum, dic age
Eripit interdum, modo dat medicina salutem
"Eripuit cœlo fulmen sceptrumque tyrannis"
Eris mihi magnus Apollo
Erlaubt ist was gefällt; erlaubt ist was sich ziemt
Ernste Thätigkeit söhnt suletzt immer mit dem Leben aus
Ernst ist der Anblick der Nothwendigkeit. /
Nicht ohne Schauder greift des Menschen Hand / In des Geschicks geheimnissvolle Urne
Ernst ist das Leben; heiter ist die Kunst
Erquickung hast du nicht gewonnen, / Wenn sie dir nicht aus eigner Seele quillt
Errantem in viam reducito
Errare humanum est
Errare malo cum Platone, quam cum istis vera
sentire
Errata
Erringen will der Mensch, er will nicht sicher sein
Erring is not cheating.
Error cannot be defended but by error.
Error is always more busy than ignorance.
Ignorance is a blank sheet on which we may write, but error is a scribbled one from which we must first erase.
Error is always talkative.
Error is but opinion in the making.
Error is but the shadow of truth.
Error is created; truth is eternal.
Error is on the surface; truth is hid in great depths.
Error is sometimes so nearly allied to truth that it blends with it as imperceptibly as the colours of the rainbow fade into each other.
Error is worse than ignorance.
Error never leaves us, yet a higher need
always draws the striving spirit gently on to truth.
Error of opinion may be tolerated where reason is left free to combat it.
Errors like straws upon the surface flow; / He who would search for pearls must dive below.
Error, sterile in itself, produces only by means of the portion of truth which it contains.
Errors, to be dangerous, must have a great deal of truth mingled with them; ... from pure extravagance, and genuine, unmingled falsehood, the world never has sustained, and never can sustain, any mischief.
Error, when she retraces her steps, has farther
to go before she can arrive at truth than ignorance.
Erröten macht die Hässlichen so schön: / Und sollte Schöne nicht noch schöner machen?
Ersparte Wahl ist auch ersparte Mühe
Er steckt seine Nase in Alles
Erst seit ich liebe ist das Leben schön, / Erst seit ich liebe, weiss ich, dass ich lebe
Erst wägen, dann wagen
Ertragen muss man was der Himmel sendet. / Unbilliges erträgt kein edles Herz
Erudition is not like a lark, which flies high and delights in nothing but singing; 'tis rather like a hawk, which soars aloft indeed, but can stoop when she finds it convenient, and seize her prey.
Er wünscht sich einen grossen Kreis / Um ihn gewisser zu erschüttern
Es bedarf nur einer Kleinigkeit, um zwei Liebende zu unterhalten
Es bildet ein Talent sich in der Stille, / Sich ein
Character in dem Strom der Welt
Es bildet / Nur das Leben den Mann, und wenig bedeuten die Worte
Eschew fine words as you would rouge; love simple ones as you would native roses on your cheek.
Escuchas al agujero; oirás de tû mal y del ageno
E se finxit velut araneus
Esel singen schlecht, weil sie zu hoch anstimmen
Es erben sich Gesetz' und Rechte / Wie eine ewige Krankheit fort
Es findet jeder seinen Meister
Es geht an
Es giebt eine Höflichkeit des Herzens; sie ist der Liebe verwandt.
Es giebt eine Schwelgerei des Geistes wie
es eine Schwelgerei der Sinne giebt
Es giebt gewisse Dinge, wo ein Frauenzimmer immer schärfer sieht, als hundert Augen der Mannspersonen
Es giebt keine andre Offenbarung, als die Gedanken der Weisen
Es giebt kein Gesetz was hat nicht ein Loch, wer's finden kann
Es giebt Männer welche die Beredsamkeit weiblicher Zungen übertreffen, aber kein Mann besitzt die Beredsamkeit weiblicher Augen
Es giebt mehr Diebe als Galgen
Es giebt Menschen, die auf die Mängel ihrer Freunde sinnen; dabei kommt nichts heraus. Ich habe immer auf die Verdienste meiner Widersacher Acht gehabt und davon Vortheil gezogen
Es giebt Naturen, die gut sind durch das was sie erreichen, andere durch das was sie verschmähen
Es giebt nur eine Religion, aber es kann vielerlei Arten der Glaubens geben
Es hört doch Jeder nur was er versteht
Es irrt der Mensch, so lang er strebt
Es ist besser, das geringste Ding von der Welt zu thun, als eine halbe Stunde für gering halten
Es ist bestimmt in Gottes Rath / Dass man vom Liebsten, was man hat, / Muss scheiden
Es ist das Wohl des Ganzen, wovon jedes patriotische, wovon selbst jedes eigennützige Gemüth das seinige hofft
Es ist der Geist, der sich den Körper baut
Es ist freundlicher das menschliche Leben anzulachen, als es anzugrinzen
Es ist klug und kühn den unvermeidlichen. Uebel entgegenzugehen
Es ist nicht gut, wenn derjenige der die
Fackel trägt, zugleich auch den Weg sucht
Es ist nicht nötig, dass ich lebe, wohl aber, dass ich meine Pflicht thue und für mein Vaterland kämpfe
Es ist öde, nichts ehren können, als sich selbst
Es ist schwer gegen den Augenblick gerecht sein; der gleichgültige macht uns Langeweile, am Guten hat man zu tragen und am Bösen zu schleppen
Es ist so schwer, den falschen Weg zu meiden
Es ist unköniglich zu weinen--ach, / Und
hier nicht weinen ist unväterlich
Es kämpft der Held am liebsten mit dem Held
Es kann der beste Herz in dunkeln Stunden fehlen
Es kann ja nicht immer so bleiben / Hier unter dem wechselnden Mond
Es kann nichts helfen ein grosses Schicksal zu haben, wenn man nicht weiss, dass man eines hat
Es kommen Fälle vor im Menschenleben, /
Wo's Weisheit ist, nicht allzu weise sein
Es leben Götter, die den Hochmut rächen
Es liebt die Welt das Strahlende zu schwärtzen, / Und das Erhabne in den Staub zu ziehn
Es liesse sich Alles trefflich schlichten, Könnte man die Sachen zweimal verrichten
Es muss auch solche Käuze geben
Espérance en Dieu
Espionage
Esprit borné
Esprit de corps
Esprit de parti
Esprit fort
Esprit juste
Esprit vif
Es reift keine Seligkeit unter dem Monde
Essayez
Esse bonum facile est, ubi quod vetet esse remotum est
Esse quam videri
Es schwinden jedes Kummers Falten / So lang des Liebes Zauber walten
Es sind nicht alle frei, die ihrer Ketten spotten
Es sind so gute Katzen die Mäuse verjagen, als die sie fangen
Es steckt nicht in Spiegel was man im Spiegel sieht
Es steht ihm an der Stirn' geschrieben, / Das er nicht mag eine Seele lieben
Establish thou the work of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands establish thou it.
Est aliquid fatale malum per verba levare
Est animus tibi / Rerumque prudens, et secundis / Temporibus dubiisque rectus
Est animus tibi, sunt mores et lingua, fidesque
Est assez riche qui ne doit rien
Est aviditas dives, et pauper pudor
Est bonus, ut melior vir / Non alius quisquam
Est brevitate opus, ut currat sententia
Est demum vera felicitas, felicitate dignum videri
Est deus in nobis, agitante calescimus illo
Est deus in nobis, et sunt commercia cœli
Esteem a man of many words and many lies
much alike.
Esteem is the harvest of a whole life spent in usefulness; but reputation is often bestowed upon a chance action, and depends most on success.
Est enim lex nihil aliud nisi recta et a numine deorum tracta ratio, imperans honesta, prohibens contraria
Est egentissimus in sua re
Est etiam miseris pietas, et in hoste probatur
Est etiam, ubi profecto damnnum præstet facere,
quam lucrum
Est genus hominum qui esse primos se omnium rerum volunt, / Nec sunt
Est hic, / Est ubivis, animus si te non deficit æquus
Est miserorum, ut malevolentes sint atque invideant bonis
Est modus in rebus; sunt certi denique fines, / Quos ultra citraque nequit consistere rectum
Est multi fabula plena joci
Est natura hominum novitatis avida
Estne Dei sedes nisi terra, et pontus, et aër, / Et cœlum, et virtus? Superos quid quærimus ultra? / Jupiter est, quodcunque vides, quodcunque moveris
Est nobis voluisse satis
Esto perpetua
Esto quod es; quod sunt alii, sine quemlibet
esse: / Quod non es, nolis; quod potes esse, velis
Esto quod esse videris
Esto, ut nunc multi, dives tibi, pauper amicis
Est pater ille quem nuptiæ demonstrant
Est profecto Deus, qui quæ nos gerimus auditque et videt
Est proprium stultitiæ aliorum cernere vitia,
oblivisci suorum
Est quadam prodire tenus, si non datur ultra
Est quædam flere voluptas, / Expletur lachrymis egeriturque dolor
Est quoque cunctarum novitas carissima rerum
Es trägt Verstand und rechter Sinn / Mit wenig Kunst sich selber vor; und wenn's euch Ernst ist was zu sagen / Ist's nötig Worten nachzujagen?
Es trinken tausend sich den Tod, ehe einer
stirbt vor Durstes Noth
Est tempus quando nihil, est tempus quando aliquid, nullum tamen est tempus in quo dicenda sunt omnia
Esurienti ne occurras
Es will einer was er soll, aber er kann's nicht machen; es kann einer was er soll, aber er will's nicht; es will und kann einer, aber er weiss nicht, was er soll
Es wird wohl auch drüben nicht anders seyn als hier
E tardegradis asinis equus non prodiit
Et cætera
Et c'est être innocent que d'être malheureux
Et credis cineres curare sepultos?
Et daligt hufoud hade han, men hjertat det
var godt
Et decus et pretium recti
E tenui casa sæpe vir magnus exit
Eternal love made me.
Eternal smiles his emptiness betray, / As shallow streams run dimpling all the way.
Eternity, depending on an hour.
Eternity looks grander and kinder if Time grow meaner and more hostile.
Eternity of being and well-being simply for
being and well-being's sake, is an ideal belonging to appetite alone, and which only the struggle of mere animalism
longing to be infinite gives rise to.
Et facere et pati fortiter Romanum est
Et genus et formam regina pecunia donat
Et genus et proavos, et quæ non fecimus ipsi, / Vix ea nostra voco
Et genus et virtus, nisi cum re, vilior alga est
Ethics makes man's soul mannerly and wise,
but logic is the armoury of reason, furnished with all offensive and defensive weapons.
Et hoc genus omne
Etiam celeritas in desiderio, mora est
Etiam fera animalia, si clausa teneas, virtutis obliviscuntur
Etiam fortes viros subitis terreri
Etiam innocentes cogit mentiri dolor
Etiam oblivisci quod scis, interdum expedit
Etiam sanato vulnere cicatrix manet
Etiam sapientibus cupido gloriæ novissima exuitur
Et jam summa procul villarum culmina fumant, / Majoresque cadunt altis de montibus umbræ
Et je sais, sur ce fait, / Bon nombre d'hommes
qui sont femmes
Et l'avare Achéron ne lâche pas sa proie
Et le combat cessa faute de combattants
Et l'on revient toujours / A ses premiers amours
Et mala sunt vicina bonis
Et male tornatos incudi reddere versus
Et mea cymba semel vasta percussa procella, / Illum, quo læsa est, horret adire locum
Et mihi res, non me rebus, subjungere conor
Et minimæ vires frangere quassa valent
Et monere, et moneri, proprium est veræ amicitiæ
Et nati natorum, et qui nascentur ab illis
Et nova fictaque nuper habebunt verba fidem, si / Græco fonte cadunt parce detorta
Et pudet, et metuo, semperque eademque precari, / Ne subeant animo tædia justa tuo
Et quæ sibi quisque timebat, / Unius in miseri exitium conversa tulere
Et quiescenti agendum est, et agenti quiescendum est
Et qui nolunt occidere quenquam / Posse
volunt
Et quorum pars magna fui
Etre capable de se laisser servir n'est pas une des moindres qualités que puisse avoir un grand roi
Etre pauvre sans être libre, c'est le pire état où l'homme puisse tomber
Etre sur le qui vive
Etre sur un grand pied dans le monde
Et rose elle a vécu ce que vivent les roses / L'espace d'un matin
Et sanguis et spiritus pecunia mortalibus
Et semel emissum volat irrevocabile verbum
Et sequentia
Et sic de ceteris
Et sic de similibus
"Et tu, Brute fili"
Et vaincre sans péril serait vaincre sans gloire
Et vitam impendere vero
Et voilà justement comme on écrit l'histoire
Etwas ist besser als gar nichts
Euch zu gefallen war mein höchster Wunsch; / Euch zu ergötzen war mein letzter Zweck
Euge, poeta!
Eum ausculta, cui quatuor sunt aures
Europe's eye is fixed on mighty things, / The fall of empires and the fate of kings.
E' va più d'un asino al mercato
Evasion is unworthy of us, and is always the intimate of equivocation.
Evasions are the common subterfuge of the hard-hearted, the false, and impotent, when called upon to assist.
Even a fly has its spleen.
Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise.
Even a frog would bite if it had teeth.
Even a haggis could charge down-hill.
Even a hair casts a shadow.
Even a horse, though he has four feet, will
stumble.
Even among the apostles there was a Judas.
Even beauty cannot palliate eccentricity.
Even by means of our sorrows we belong to the eternal plan.
Even foxes are outwitted and caught.
Even in a righteous cause force is a fearful
thing; God only helps when men can help no more.
Evening is the delight of virtuous age; it seems an emblem of the tranquil close of busy life.
Even in social life, it is persistency which attracts confidence, more than talents and accomplishments.
Even perfect examples lead astray by tempting us to overleap the necessary steps in their development, whereby we are for the most part led past the goal into boundless error.
Even so my sun one early morn did shine, / With all triumphant splendour on my brow; / But out, alack! it was but one hour mine.
Even success needs its consolations.
Even that fish may be caught which resists most stoutly against it.
Even the just man has need of help.
Even the lowest book of chronicles partakes of the spirit of the age in which it was written.
Even then a wish (I mind its power), / A wish that to my latest hour / Shall strongly heave my breast, / That I, for puir auld Scotland's sake, / Some usefu' plan or beuk could make, / Or sing a sang at least.
Even though the cloud veils it, the sun is ever
in the canopy of heaven
holy will rules there; the world does not serve blind chance.
Even though vanquished, he could argue still.
Even thou who mourn'st the daisy's fate, / That fate is thine--no distant date; / Stern Ruin's ploughshare drives elate / Full on thy bloom, / Till crush'd beneath the farrow's weight / Shall be thy doom.
Events are only the shells of ideas; and often it is the fluent thought of ages that is crystallised in a moment by the stroke of a pen or the point of a bayonet.
Events of all sorts creep or fly exactly as God pleases.
Eventus stultorum magister est
Even weak men when united are powerful.
Evêque d'or, crosse de bois; crosse d'or, évêque de bois
Ever, as of old, the thing a man will do is the thing he feels commanded to do.
Ever charming, ever new, / When will the landscape tire the view?
Ever learning, and never able to come to the
knowledge of the truth.
Evermore thanks, the exchequer of the poor.
Ever must pain urge us to labour, and only in free effort can any blessedness be imagined for us.

Ever since Adam's time fools have been in the majority.
Ever take it for granted that man collectively
wishes that which is right; but take care never to think so of one!
Every absurdity has a champion to defend it; for error is talkative.
Every action is measured by the depth of the sentiment from which it proceeds.
Every advantage has its tax, but there is none on the good of virtue; that is the incoming of God himself, or absolute existence.
Every age regards the dawning of new light as the destroying fire of morality; while that very age itself, with heart uninjured, finds itself raised one degree of light above the preceding.
Every attempt to crush an insurrection with means inadequate to the end foments instead of suppressing it.
Every author, in some degree, portrays himself in his works, be it even against his will.
Every base occupation makes one sharp in its practice and dull in every other.
Every bean has its black.
Every beginning is cheerful; the threshold is
the place of expectation.
Every beloved object is the centre of a paradise.
Every being is a moving temple of the Infinite.
Everybody is wise after the event.
Everybody knows that fanaticism is religion caricatured; yet with many, contempt of fanaticism is received as a sure sign of hostility to religion.
Everybody knows that government never began
anything. It is the whole world that thinks and governs.
Everybody likes and respects self-made men. It is a great deal better to be made in that way than not to be made at all.
Everybody says it, and what everybody says must be true.
Everybody's business in the social system is to be agreeable.
Everybody's business is nobody's.
Everybody's friend is nobody's.
Every book is good to read which sets the reader in a working mood.
Every book is written with a constant secret reference to the few intelligent persons whom the writer believes to exist in the million.
Every brave life out of the past does not appear to us so brave as it really was, for the forms of terror with which it wrestled are now overthrown.
Every brave man is a man of his word.
Every brave youth is in training to ride and
rule his dragon.
Every bullet has its billet.
Every Calvary has its Olivet.
Every capability, however slight, is born with us; there is no vague general capability in man.
Every child is to a certain extent a genius, and every genius is to a certain extent a child.
Every cloud engenders not a storm.
Every cloud that spreads above / And veileth love, itself is love.
Every cock is proud on his own dunghill.
Every conceivable society may well be figured as properly and wholly a Church, in one or other of these three predicaments: an audibly preaching and prophesying Church, which is the best; a Church that struggles to preach and prophesy, but cannot as yet till its Pentecost come; a Church gone dumb with old age, or which only mumbles delirium prior to dissolution.
Every cottage should have its porch, its oven, and its tank.
Every couple is not a pair.
Every craw thinks her ain bird whitest.
Every creature can bear well-being except man.
Every crime has in the moment of its perpetration its own avenging angel.
Every day hath its night, every weal its woe.
Every day in thy life is a leaf in thy history.
Every day is the best day in the year. No man has learned anything rightly until he knows that every day is Doomsday.
Every day should be spent by us as if it were to be our last.
Every department of knowledge passes successively through three stages: the theological, or fictitious; the metaphysical, or abstract; and the scientific, or positive.
Every desire bears its death in its very gratification.
Every desire is a viper in the bosom, who,
when he was chill, was harmless, but when warmth gave him strength, exerted it in poison.
Every dog must have his day.
Every door may be shut but death's door.
Every established religion was once a heresy.
Every event that a man would master must be mounted on the run, and no man ever caught the reins of a thought except as it galloped past him.
Every evil to which we do not succumb is a
benefactor; we gain the strength of the temptation we resist.
Every excess causes a defect; every deficit, an excess. Every sweet has its sour; every evil, its good. Every faculty which is a receiver of pleasure has an equal penalty put on its abuse.
Every experiment, by multitudes or by individuals, that has a sensual and selfish aim, will fail.
Every faculty is conserved and increased by its appropriate exercise.
Every fancy that we would substitute for a reality is, if we saw it aright and saw the whole, not only false, but every way less beautiful and excellent than that which we sacrifice to it.
Every flood has its ebb.
Every fool thinks himself clever enough.
Every fool will be meddling.
Every foot will tread on him who is in the mud.
Every form of freedom is hurtful, except that which delivers us over to perfect command of ourselves.
Every form of human life is romantic.
Every fresh acquirement is another remedy
against affliction and time.
Every friend is to the other a sun and a sunflower also: he attracts and follows.
Every generation laughs at the old fashions, but follows religiously the herd.
Every generous action loves the public view, yet no theatre for virtue is equal to a consciousness of it.
Every genius has most power in his own language, and every heart in its own religion.
Every genius is defended from approach by quantities of unavailableness.
Every genuine work of art has as much reason
for being as the earth and the sun.
Every gift which is given, even though it be small, is in reality great if it be given with affection.
Every good act is charity. A man's true wealth hereafter is the good that he does in this world to his fellows.
Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above.
Every good gift comes from God.
Every good picture is the best of sermons
and lectures: the sense informs the soul.
Every good writer has much idiom; it is the life and spirit of language.
Every great and commanding movement in the annals of the world is the triumph of enthusiasm.
Every great and original writer, in proportion as he is great or original, must himself create the taste by which he is to be relished.
Every great book is an action, and every great action is a book.
Every great genius has a special vocation,
and when he has fulfilled it, he is no longer needed.
Every great man is unique.
Every great mind seeks to labour for eternity. All men are captivated by immediate advantages; great minds alone are excited by the prospect of distant good.
Every great poem is in itself limited by necessity, but in its suggestions unlimited and infinite.
Every great reform which has been effected has consisted, not in doing something new, but in undoing something old.
Every great writer is a writer of history, let
him treat on almost what subject he may. He carries with him for thousands of years a portion of his times; and, indeed, if only his own effigy were there, it would be greatly more than a fragment of his century.
Every healthy effort is directed from the inward to the outward world.
Every heart knows its own bitterness.
Every hero becomes a bore at last.
Every heroic act measures itself by its contempt of some external good; but it finds its own success at last, and then the prudent also extol.
Every honest miller has a golden thumb.
Every hour has its end.
Every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things is God.
Every human being is intended to have a character of his own, to be what no other is, to do what no other can.
Every human feeling is greater and larger than the exciting cause--a proof, I think, that man is designed for a higher state of existence.
Every idea must have a visible unfolding.
Every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment.
Every inch a king.
Every inch of joy has an ell of annoy.
Every individual colour makes on men an impression of its own, and thereby reveals its nature to the eye as well as the mind.
Every individual nature has its own beauty.
Every inordinate cup is unbless'd, and the ingredient is a devil.
Every joy that comes to us is only to strengthen us for some greater labour that is to succeed.
Every knave is a thorough knave, and a thorough knave is a knave throughout.
Every light has its shadow.
Every little fish expects to become a whale.
Every little helps.
Every little helps, as the sow said when she snapt at a gnat.
Every loving woman is a priestess of the past.
Every man alone is sincere; at the entrance of a second person, hypocrisy begins.
Every man as an individual is secondary to
what he is as a worker for the progress of his kind and the glory of the gift allotted to him.
Every man can build a chapel in his breast, himself the priest, his heart the sacrifice, and the earth he treads on the altar.
Every man can guide an ill wife but him that has her.
Every man carries an enemy in his own bosom.
Every man carries within him a potential madman.
Every man deems that he has precisely the
trials and temptations which are the hardest to bear; but they are so because they are the very ones he needs.
Every man desires to live long, but no man would be old.
Every man feels instinctively that all the beautiful sentiments in the world weigh less than a single lovely action.
Every man has a bag hanging before him in which he puts his neighbour's faults, and another behind him in which he stows his own.
Every man has a goose that lays golden eggs, if he only knew it.
Every man has at times in his mind the ideal
of what he should be, but is not. In all men that really seek to improve, it is better than the actual character.
Every man hath business and desire, / Such as it is.
Every man has his fault, and honesty is his.
Every man has his lot, and the wide world before him.
Every man has his own style, just as he has his own nose.
Every man has his weak side.
Every man has in himself a continent of undiscovered character. Happy is he who acts the Columbus to his own soul.
Every man has just as much vanity as he wants understanding.
Every man hath a good and a bad angel attending on him in particular all his life long.
Every man, however good he may be, has a still better man dwelling in him which is properly himself, but to whom nevertheless he is often unfaithful. It is to this interior and less unstable being that we should attach ourselves, not to the changeable every-day man.
Every man in his lifetime needs to thank his
faults.
Every man is an impossibility until he is born; everything impossible till we see it a success.
Every man is a quotation from all his ancestors.
Every man is a rascal as soon as he is sick.
Every man is exceptional.
Every man is his own greatest dupe.
Every man is not so much a workman in the world as he is a suggestion of that he should be. Men walk as prophecies of the next age.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
Every man must carry his own sack to the mill.
Every man must in a measure be alone in the world. No heart was ever cast in the same mould as that which we bear within us.
Every man of sound brain whom you meet
knows something worth knowing better than yourself.
Every man ought to have his opportunity to conquer the world for himself.
Every man rejoices twice when he has a partner of his joy.
Every man seeks the truth, but God only knows who has found it.
Every man shall bear his own burden.
Every man shall kiss his lips that giveth a
right answer.
Every man should study conciseness in speaking; it is a sign of ignorance not to know that long speeches, though they may please the speaker, are the torture of the hearer.
Every man stamps his value on himself. The price we challenge for ourselves is given us.
Every man takes care that his neighbour shall not cheat him.
Every man acts truly so long as he acts his nature, or some way makes good the faculties in himself.
Every man turns his dreams into realities as
far as he can. Man is cold as ice to the truth, but as fire to falsehood.
Every man who observes vigilantly and resolves steadfastly grows unconsciously into a genius.
Every man who strikes blows for power, for influence, for institutions, for the right, must be just as good an anvil as he is a hammer.
Every man who would do anything well must come to us from a higher ground.
Every man willingly gives value to the praise which he receives, and considers the sentence passed in his favour as the sentence of discernment.
Every man, within that inconsiderable figure
of his, contains a whole spirit-kingdom and reflex of the All; and, though to the eye but some six standard feet in size, reaches downwards and upwards, unsurveyable, fading into the regions of immensity and eternity.
Every man without passions has within him no principle of action nor motive to act.
Every man's blind in his ain cause.
Every man's destiny is in his own hands.
Every man's follies are the caricature resemblances of his wisdom.
Every man's life lies within the present.
 (a Douglas
Every man's own reason is his best Œdipus.
Every man's powers have relation to some kind of work, and wherever he finds that kind of work which he can do best, he finds that by which he can best build up or make his manhood.
Every man's reason is every man's oracle.
Every moment, as it passes, is of infinite
value, for it is the representative of a whole eternity.
Every moment instructs, and every object, for wisdom is infused into every form. It has been poured into us as blood; it convulsed us as pain; it slid into us as pleasure.
Every morsel to a satisfied hunger is only a new labour to a tired digestion.
Every mortal longs for his parade-place; would still wish, at banquets, to be master of some seat or other wherein to overtop this or that plucked goose of the neighbourhood.
Every movement in the skies or upon the earth proclaims to us that the universe is under government.
Every natural action is graceful.
Every natural fact is a symbol of some spiritual fact.
Every newly discovered truth judges the world, separates the good from the evil, and calls on faithful souls to make sure their election.
Every new opinion, at its starting, is precisely in a minority of one.
Every noble crown is, and on earth will ever be, a crown of thorns.
Every noble life leaves the fibre of it interwoven for ever in the work of the world.
Every noble work is at first impossible.
Every novel is a debtor to Homer.
Every offence is not a hate at first.
Every one believes in his youth that the world really began with him, and that all merely exists for his sake.
Every one bows to the bush that bields

Every one can master a grief but he that has it.
Every one complains of his memory, no one of
his judgment.
Every one draws the water to his own mill.
Every one excels in something in which another fails.
Every one fault seeming monstrous till his fellow-fault came to match it.
Every one finds sin sweet and repentance bitter.
Every one for himself and God for us all.
Every one has a trial of his own: my wife is mine. Happy is he who has no other.
Every one is a preacher under the gallows.
Every one is as God made him, and often a great deal worse.
Every one is his own worst enemy.
Every one is judge of what a man seems, no
one of what a man is.
Every one is poorer in proportion as he has more wants, and counts not what he has, but wishes only what he has not.
Every one is well or ill at ease according as he finds himself.
Every one knows best where his shoe pinches him.
Every one knows better than he practises, and recognises a better law than he obeys.
Every one knows good counsel except him who
needs it.
Every one of us believes in his heart, or would like to have others believe, that he is something which he is not.
Every one of us shall give account of himself to God.
Every one rakes the fire under his own pot.
Every one regards his duty as a troublesome master from whom he would like to be free.
Every one should sweep before his own door.
Every one sings as he has the gift, and marries as he has the luck.
Every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.
Every one that doeth evil hateth the light.
Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.
Every one thinks his own burden the heaviest.
Every one who is able to administer what he has, has enough.
Every one would be wise; no one will become so.
Every one would rather believe than exercise his own judgment.
Every opinion reacts on him who utters it.
Every other master is known by what he
utters; the master of style commends himself to me by what he wisely passes over in silence.
Every painter ought to paint what he himself loves.
Every passion gives a particular cast to the countenance, and is apt to discover itself in some feature or other.
Every people has its prophet.
Every period of life has its peculiar prejudices. Whoever saw old age that did not applaud the past and condemn the present?
Every period of life has its peculiar temptations
and dangers.
Every period of life is obliged to borrow its happiness from the time to come.
Every person who manages another is a hypocrite.
Every petition to God is a precept to man.
Every place is safe to him who lives with justice.
Every pleasure pre-supposes some sort of
activity.
Every poet, be his outward lot what it may, finds himself born in the midst of prose; he has to struggle from the littleness and obstruction of an actual world into the freedom and infinitude of an ideal.
Every power of both heaven and earth is friendly to a noble and courageous activity.
Every production of genius must be the production of enthusiasm.
Every race has its own habitat.
Every reader reads himself out of the book
that he reads.
Every real master of speaking or writing uses his personality as he would any other serviceable material.
Every real need is appeased and every vice stimulated by satisfaction.
Every rightly constituted mind ought to rejoice, not so much in knowing anything clearly, as in feeling that there is infinitely more which it cannot know.
Every rose has its thorn.
Every scripture is to be interpreted by the
same spirit which gave it forth.
Every sect, as far as reason will help it, gladly uses it; when it fails them, they cry out it is matter of faith, and above reason.
Every shadow points to the sun.
Every ship is a romantic object except that we sail in.
Every shoe fits not every foot.
Every shot does not bring down a bird.
Every soo (sow) to its ain trough.
Every species of activity is met by a negation.
Every spirit builds itself a house, and beyond its house a world, and beyond its world a heaven.
Every spirit makes its house, but afterwards the house confines the spirit.
Every step of life shows how much caution is required.
Every step of progress which the world has made has been from scaffold to scaffold and from stake to stake.
Every Stoic was a Stoic, but in Christendom
where is the Christian?
Every style formed elaborately on any model must be affected and strait-laced.
Every subject's duty is the king's, but every subject's soul is his own.
Every tear of sorrow sown by the righteous springs up a pearl.
Everything a man parts with is the cost of something. Everything he receives is the compensation of something.
Everything calls for interest, only it must be
an interest divested of self-interest and sincere.
Everything comes if a man will only wait.
Everything, even piety, is dangerous in a man without judgment.
Everything good in a man thrives best when properly recognised.
Everything good in man leans on what is higher.
Everything good is on the highway.
Everything great is not always good, but all good things are great.
Everything holy is before what is unholy; guilt presupposes innocence, not the reverse; angels, but not fallen ones, were created.
Everything in life, to be of value, must have a sequence.
Everything in nature contains all the powers of nature. Everything is made of one hidden stuff.
Everything in nature goes by law, and not by
luck.
Everything in nature has a positive and a negative pole.
Everything in nature is a puzzle until it finds its solution in man, who solves it in some way with God, and so completes the circle of creation.
Everything in the world can be borne except a long succession of beautiful days.
Everything in this world depends upon will.
Everything in this world is a tangled yarn;
we taste nothing in its purity; we do not remain two moments in the same state.
Everything is as you take it.
Everything is beautiful, seen from the point of the intellect; but all is sour if seen as experience.
Everything is good as it comes from the hands of the Creator; everything degenerates in the hands of man.
Everything is mere opinion.
Everything is sold to skill and labour.
Everything is sweetened by risk.
Everything is what it is, and not another thing.
Everything is worth the money that can be got for it.
Everything looks easy that is practised to perfection.
Everything rises but to fall, and increases but
to decay.
Everything runs to excess; every good quality is noxious if unmixed; and to carry the danger to the edge of ruin, Nature causes each man's peculiarity to superabound.
Everything springs into being and passes away according to law, yet how fluctuating is the lot that presides over the life which is to us so priceless.
Everything that exceeds the bounds of moderation has an unstable foundation.
Everything that happens, happens of necessity.
Everything that happens in this world is part
of a great plan of God running through all time.
Everything that happens to us leaves some trace behind it, and everything insensibly contributes to make us what we are.
Everything that is exquisite hides itself.
Everything that is popular deserves the attention of the philosopher; although it may not be of any worth in itself, yet it characterises the people.
Everything that looks to the future elevates human nature; for never is life so low as when occupied with the present.
Everything that tends to emancipate us from
external restraint without adding to our own power of self-government is mischievous.
Everything unnatural is imperfect.
Everything useful to the life of man arises from the ground, but few things arise in that condition which is requisite to render them useful.
Every thought that arises in the mind, in its rising aims to pass out of the mind into act; just as every plant, in the moment of generation, struggles up to the light.
Every thought was once a poem.
Every thought which genius and piety throw
into the world alters the world.
Every time a man smiles, much more when he laughs, it adds something to his fragment of life.
Every time you forgive a man you weaken him and strengthen yourself.
Every transition is a crisis, and a crisis presupposes sickness.
Every traveller has a home of his own, and he learns to appreciate it the more from his wandering.
Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire.
Every true man's apparel fits your thief.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
Every unpleasant feeling is a sign that I have
become untrue to my resolutions.
Every unpunished murder takes away something from the security of every man's life.
Every vicious habit and chronic disease communicates itself by descent, and by purity of birth the entire system of the human body and soul may be gradually elevated, or by recklessness of birth degraded, until there shall be as much difference between the well-bred and ill-bred human creature (whatever pains be taken with their education) as between a wolf-hound and the vilest mongrel cur.
Every violation of truth is a stab at the health of society.
Every wanton and causeless restraint of the will of the subject, whether practised by a monarch, a nobility, or a popular assembly, is a degree of tyranny.
Everywhere I am hindered of meeting God in
my brother, because he has shut his own temple doors, and recites fables merely of his brother's or his brother's brother's God.
Everywhere in life the true question is, not what we gain, but what we do; so also in intellectual matters it is not what we receive, but what we are made to give, that chiefly contents and profits us.
Everywhere the formed world is the only habitable one.
Everywhere the human soul stands between a hemisphere of light and another of darkness; on the confines of two everlasting, hostile empires, Necessity and Free Will.
Everywhere the individual seeks to show himself off to advantage, and nowhere honestly endeavours to make himself subservient to the whole.
Every white will have its black, / And every
sweet its sour.
Every why hath a wherefore.
Every wise woman buildeth her house, but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands.
Every word was once a poem.
Every worm beneath the moon / Draws different threads, and late and soon / Spins, toiling out his own cocoon.
Every youth, from the king's son downwards,
should learn to do something finely and thoroughly with his hand.
E vestigio
Evil and good are everywhere, like shadow and substance; (for men) inseparable, yet not hostile, only opposed.
Evil, be thou my good.
Evil comes to us by ells and goes away by inches.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
Evil events from evil causes spring.
Evil is a far more cunning and persevering propagandist than good, for it has no inward strength, and is driven to seek countenance and sympathy.
Evil is generally committed under the hope of some advantage the pursuit of virtue seldom obtains.
Evil is merely privative, not absolute; it is like cold, which is the privation of heat. All evil is so much death or nonentity.
Evil is wrought by want of thought / As well
as want of heart.
Evil, like a rolling stone upon a mountain-top, / A child may first impel, a giant cannot stop.
Evil men understand not judgment, but they that seek the Lord understand all things.
Evil news rides post, while good news bates.
Evil often triumphs, but never conquers.
Evil, what we call evil, must ever exist while
man exists; evil, in the widest sense we can give it, is precisely the dark, disordered material out of which man's freewill has to create an edifice of order and good. Ever must pain urge us to labour; and only in free effort can any blessedness be imagined for us.
Evils can never pass away; for there must always remain something which is antagonistic to good.
Evils that take leave, / On their departure most of all show evil.
Evolare rus ex urbe tanquam ex vinculis
Ewig jung zu bleiben / Ist, wie Dichter schreiben / Hochstes Lebensgut; / Willst du es erwerben / Musst du frühe sterben
Ewig zu sein in jedem Momente
Ex abrupto
Ex abundante cautela
Ex abusu non arguitur ad usum
Ex abusu non argumentum ad desuetudinem
Exact justice is commonly more merciful in
the long run than pity, for it tends to foster in men those stronger qualities which make them good citizens.
Ex æquo
Ex æquo et bono
Exaggeration is a blood relation to falsehood.
Exaggeration is to paint a snake and add legs.
Examine the religious principles which have, in fact, prevailed in the world. You will scarcely be persuaded that they are anything but sick men's dreams.
Examine your soul and its emotions, and thoughts will be to you so many glorious revelations of the Godhead.
Example acquires tenfold authority when it speaks from the grave.
Example has more followers than reason.
Example is a hazardous lure: where the wasp
gets through, the gnat sticks.
Example is more efficacious than precept.
Example is more forcible than precept. People look at me six days in the week, to see what I mean on the seventh.
Example is the school of mankind, and they will learn at no other.
Examples of rare intelligence, yet more rarely cultivated, are not lights kindled for a moment; they live on here in their good deeds, and in their venerated memories.
Examples would indeed be excellent things,
were not people so modest that none will set them, and so vain that none will follow them.
Ex animo
Ex aperto
Ex auribus cognoscitur asinus
Ex cathedra
Excellence is never granted to man but as the
reward of labour.
Excellent wretch! Perdition catch my soul, / But I do love thee! and when I love thee not, / Chaos is come again.
Excelsior
Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone; but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.
Except by mastership and servantship, there is no conceivable deliverance from tyranny and slavery.
Except I be by Silvia in the night, / There is
no music in the nightingale.
Except in knowing what it has to do and how to do it, the soul cannot resolve the riddle of its destiny.
Except in obedience to the heaven-chosen is freedom not so much as conceivable.
Except pain of body and remorse of conscience, all our evils are imaginary.
Except the Lord build the house, they labour in vain that build it; except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh in vain.
Except ye be converted and become as little
children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven.
Exceptio probat regulam
Exceptis excipiendis
Excepto quod non simul esses, cætera lætus
Excerpta
Excess generally causes reaction, and produces
a change in the opposite direction, whether it be in the seasons, or in individuals, or in governments.
Excess in apparel is costly folly. The very trimming of the vain world would clothe all the naked ones.
Excess of wealth is cause of covetousness.
Excessit ex ephebis
Excessive distrust is not less hurtful than its opposite. Most men become useless to him who is unwilling to risk being deceived.
Excitari, non hebescere
Exclusa opes omnes
Ex commodo
Ex concesso
Ex confesso
Ex curia
Excusing of a fault / Doth make the fault worse by the excuse.
Ex debito justitiæ
Ex delicto
Ex desuetudine amittuntur privilegia
Ex diuturnitate temporis omnia præsumuntur
esse solemniter acta
Exeat
Exegi monumentum ære perennius
Exempli gratia
Exemplo plus quam ratione vivimus
Exemplumque Dei quisque est in imagine
parva
Exercise the muscles well, but spare the nerves always.
Exercitatio optimus est magister
Exercitatio potest omnia
Exeunt omnes
Ex facie
Ex factis non ex dictis amici pensandi
Ex facto jus oritur
Ex fide fortis
Ex fumo dare lucem
Ex humili magna ad fastigia rerum / Extollit, quoties voluit fortuna jocari
Ex hypothesi
Exigite ut mores teneros ceu pollice ducat, / Ut si quis cera vultum facit
Exigui numero, sed bello vivida virtus
Exiguum est ad legem bonum esse
Exile is terrible to those who have, as it were, a circumscribed habitation; but not to those who look upon the whole globe as one city.
Exilioque domos et dulcia limina mutant /
Atque alio patriam quærunt sub sole jacentem
Ex improviso
Ex industria
Ex inimico cogita posse fieri amicum
Ex integro
Ex intervallo
Existence is not to be measured by mere duration.
Exitio est avidium mare nautis
Ex malis eligere minima
Ex malis moribus bonæ leges natæ sunt
Ex mero motu
Ex nihilo nihil fit
Ex officio
Ex opere operato
Exoriare aliquis nostris ex ossibus ultor
Ex otio plus negotii quam ex negotio habemus
Ex parte
Ex pede Herculem
Expect injuries; for men are weak, and thou thyself doest such too often.
Expediency is the science of exigencies.
Expense of time is the most costly of all expenses.
Experience, a jewel that I have purchased at an infinite rate.
Experience converts us to ourselves when books fail us.
Experience is a text to which reflection and knowledge supply the commentary.
Experience is by industry achieved, / And perfected by swift course of time.
"Experience is the best teacher," only the
school-fees are heavy.
Experience is the grand spiritual doctor.
Experience is the mistress of fools.
Experience is the only genuine knowledge.
Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in no other, and scarce in that; for it is true we may give advice, but we cannot give conduct.
Experience makes even fools wise.
Experience makes us see a wonderful difference between devotion and goodness.
Experience takes dreadfully high school-wages, but teaches as no other.
Experience teaches us again and again that there is nothing men have less command over than their tongues.
Experience teacheth that resolution is a sole help in need.
Experience that is bought is good, if not too
dear.
Experience to most men is like the stern-lights of a ship, which illumine only the track it has passed.
Experientia docet
Experimentum crucis
Expert men can execute, but learned men are more fit to judge and censure.
Experto credite
Expertus metuit
Expetuntur divitiæ ad perficiendas voluptates
Explorant adversa viros; perque aspera duro / Nititur ad laudem virtus interrita clivo
Ex post facto
Expression alone can invest beauty with
supreme and lasting command over the eye.
Expressio unius est exclusio alterius
Ex professo
Ex quovis ligno non fit Mercurius
Ex scintilla incendium
Ex tempore
Extended empire, like expanded gold, exchanges solid strength for feeble splendour.
External manners of lament / Are merely shadows to the unseen grief / That swells with silence in the tortured soul.
Extinctus amabilis idem
Extinguished theologians lie about the cradle of every science, as the strangled snakes beside that of Hercules.
Extra ecclesiam nulla salus
Extra lutum pedes habes
Extra muros
Extra telorum jactum
Extrema gaudii luctus occupat
Extrema manus nondum operibus ejus imposita est
Extreme justice is often extreme injustice.
Extremes beget extremes.
Extreme in all things! hadst thou been betwixt,
/ Thy throne had still been thine, or never been.
Extremes in nature equal ends produce; / In man they join to some mysterious use.
Extremes meet.
Extremes, though contrary, have the like effects; extreme heat mortifies, like extreme cold; extreme love breeds satiety as well as extreme hatred; and too violent rigour tempts chastity as much as too much license.
Extremis malis extrema remedia
Extremity is the trier of spirits.
Exuerint sylvestrem animum, cultuque frequenti, / In quascunque voces artes, haud tarda sequentur
Ex umbra in solem
Ex ungue leonem
Ex uno disce omnes
Ex vita discedo, tanquam ex hospitio, non
tanquam ex domo
Ex vitio alterius sapiens emendat suum
Ex vitulo bos fit
Ex vultibus hominum mores colligere
Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.
Eye Nature's walks, shoot folly as it flies, /
And catch the manners living as they rise.
Eyes are better, on the whole, than telescopes or microscopes.
Eyes bright, with many tears behind them.
Eyes not down-dropp'd nor over-bright, but fed with the clear-pointed flame of chastity.
Eyes / Of microscopic power, that could discern / The population of a dewdrop.
Eyes raised towards heaven are always beautiful,
whatever they be.
Eyes speak all languages; wait for no letter of introduction; they ask no leave of age or rank; they respect neither poverty nor riches, neither learning, nor power, nor virtue, nor sex, but intrude and come again, and go through and through you in a moment of time.
Eyes will not see when the heart wishes them to be blind; desire conceals truth as darkness does the earth.
Ez for war, I call it murder; / There you hev it plain and flat; / I don't want to go no furder / Than my Testyment for that.
Fa bene, e non guardare a chi
Faber suæ fortunæ
Fabricando fabri fimus
Fabula, nec sentis, tota jactaris in urbe
Faces are as legible as books, only they are read in much less time, and are much less likely to deceive us.
Faces are as paper money, for which, on demand, there frequently proves to be no gold in the coffer.
Faces are but a gallery of portraits.
Faces which have charmed us the most escape us the soonest.
Fac et excusa
Facetiarum apud præpotentes in longum memoria est
Fach
Facienda
Facies non omnibus una, / Nec diversa tamen; qualem decet esse sororum
Facies tua computat annos
Facile est imperium in bonis
Facile est inventis addere
Facile largiri de alieno
Facile omnes cum valemus recta consilia / Ægrotis damus
Facile princeps
Facilis descensus Averno est, / Noctes atque dies patet atri janua Ditis; / Sed revocare gradum superasque evadere ad auras, / Hoc opus, hic labor est
Facilius crescit quam inchoatur dignitas
Facilius sit Nili caput invenire
Facinus audax incipit, / Qui cum opulento pauper homine cœpit rem habere aut negotium
Facinus majoris abollæ
Facinus quos inquinat æquat
Facit indignatio versum
Facito aliquid operis, ut semper te diabolus
inveniat occupatum
Faciunt næ intelligendo, ut nihil intelligant
Façon de parler
Facsimile
Facta canam; sed erunt qui me finxisse loquantur
Facta ejus cum dictis discrepant
Facta, non verba
Fact is better than fiction, if only we could get it pure.
Facts are apt to alarm us more than the most dangerous principles.
Facts are chiels that winna ding, / And downa be disputed.
Facts are stubborn things.
Facts are to the mind the same thing as food to the body.
Facts--historical facts, still more biographical--are sacred hierograms, for which the fewest have the key.
Factis ignoscite nostris / Si scelus ingenio scitis abesse meo
Factotum
Factum abiit; monumenta manent
Factum est
Factum est illud; fieri infectum non potest
Fader og Moder ere gode, end er Gud bedre
Fæx populi
Fagerhed uden Tugt, Rose uden Hugt
Fähigkeiten werden vorausgesetzt; sie sollen zu Fertigkeiten werden
Failures are with heroic minds the stepping-stones to success.
Fain would I, but I dare not; I dare, and yet I may not; / I may, although I care not, for pleasure when I play not.
"Fain would I climb, but that I fear a fall."
Fainéant
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Faint not; the miles to heaven are but few and short.
Fair and softly goes far in a day.
Fair enough, if good enough.
Fair fa' guid drink, for it gars
speak as they think.
Fair fa' your honest, sonsie face, / Great chieftain o' the puddin' race! / Abune them a' ye tak' your place, / Paunch, tripe, or thairm; / Weel are ye wordy o' a grace / As lang's my airm.
Fair flowers don't remain lying by the highway.
Fair folk are aye fusionless
Fair is not fair, but that which pleaseth.
Fair maidens wear nae purses
Fair play's a jewel.
Fair tresses man's imperial race ensnare, / And beauty draws us with a single hair.
Fair words butter no parsnips.
Faire bonne mine à mauvaise jeu
Faire le chien couchant
Faire le diable à quatre
Faire le pendant
Faire mon devoir
Faire patte de velours
Faire prose sans le savoir
Faire sans dire
Faire un trou pour en boucher un autre
Fairest of stars, last in the train of night, / If better thou belong not to the dawn.
Fais ce que dois, advienne que pourra
Fait accompli
Faith affirms many things respecting which the senses are silent; but nothing that they deny.
Faith always implies the disbelief of a lesser fact in favour of a greater. A little mind often sees the unbelief, without seeing the belief, of large ones.
Faith and joy are the ascensive forces of song.
Faith builds a bridge across the gulf of death, / To break the shock blind Nature cannot shun, / And lands thought smoothly on the farther shore.
Faith builds a bridge from the old world to the
next.
Faith doth not lie dead in the breast, but is lovely and fruitful in bringing forth good works.
Faith, fanatic faith, once wedded fast, / To save dear falsehood, hugs it to the last.
Faith has given man an inward willingness, a world of strength wherewith to front a world of difficulty.
Faith in a better than that which appears is no less required by art than religion.
Faith is generally strongest in those whose character may be called weakest.
Faith is letting down our nets into the untransparent deeps at the Divine command, not knowing what we shall take.
Faith is like love; it does not admit of being forced.
Faith is love taking the form of aspiration.
Faith is loyalty to some inspired teacher, some spiritual hero.
Faith is necessary to victory.
Faith is nothing but spiritualised imagination.
Faith is nothing more than obedience.
Faith is not reason's labour, but repose.
Faith is not the beginning, but the end of all knowledge.
Faith is our largest manufacturer of good works, and wherever her furnaces are blown out, morality suffers.
Faith is required at thy hands, and a sincere life, not loftiness of intellect or inquiry into the deep mysteries of God.
Faith is taking God at His word.
Faith is that courage in the heart which trusts
for all good to God.
Faith is the creator of the Godhead; not that it creates anything in the Divine Eternal Being, but that it creates that Being in us.
Faith is the heroism of intellect.
Faith is the soul of religion, and works the body.
Faith loves to lean on Time's destroying arm.
Faith makes us, and not we it; and faith makes
its own forms.
Faith, mighty faith, the promise sees, / And looks to that alone; / Laughs at impossibilities, / And cries--"It shall be done."
Faith opens a way for the understanding; unbelief closes it.
Faith without works is like a bird without wings.
Faith's abode / Is mystery for evermore, / Its life, to worship and adore, / And meekly bow beneath the rod, / When the day is dark and the burden sore.
Faiths that are different in their roots, /
Where the will is right and the heart is sound, / Are much the same in their fruits.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend.
Faithful found / Among the faithless; faithful only he.
Faithfulness and sincerity are the highest things.
Falla pouco, e bem, ter-te-haô por alguem
Fallacia / Alia aliam trudit
Fallacies we are apt to put upon ourselves by taking words for things.
Fallentis semita vitæ
Fallit enim vitium, specie virtutis et umbra, / Cum sit triste habitu, vultuque et veste severum
Fallitur, egregio quisquis sub principe credit / Servitium. Nunquam libertas gratior extat / Quam sub rege pio
Falls have their risings, wanings have their
primes, / And desperate sorrows wait for better times.
Falsch ist das Geschlecht der Menschen
False as dicers' oaths.
False by degrees and exquisitely wrong.
False face must hide what the false heart doth know.
False folk should hae mony witnesses.
False freends are waur than bitter enemies.
False friends are like our shadow, close to us while we walk in the sunshine, but leaving us the instant we cross into the shade.
False glory is the rock of vanity.
False modesty is the masterpiece of vanity.
False modesty is the most decent of all falsehood.
False shame is the parent of many crimes.
Falsehood and death are synonymous.
Falsehood borders so closely upon truth, that a wise man should not trust himself too near the precipice.
Falsehood is cowardice; truth is courage.
Falsehood is easy, truth is difficult.
Falsehood is folly.
Falsehood is never so successful as when she baits her hook with truth.
Falsehood is our one enemy in this world.
Falsehood is so much the more commendable, by how much more it resembles truth, and is the more pleasing the more it is doubtful and possible.
Falsehood is the devil's daughter, and speaks
her father's tongue.
Falsehood is the essence of all sin.
Falsehood, like poison, will generally be rejected when administered alone; but when blended with wholesome ingredients may be swallowed unperceived.
Falsehood, like the dry rot, flourishes the more in proportion as air and light are excluded.
Falso damnati crimine mortis
Falsum in uno, falsum in omni
Falsus honor juvat, et mendax infamia terret / Quem nisi mendosum et medicandum
Fama clamosa
Fama crescit eundo
Fama nihil est celerius
Famæ damna majora sunt, quam quæ æstimari possint
Famæ laboranti non facile succurritur
Famam extendere factis.
Fame and censure with a tether / By fate are
always linked together.
Fame at its best is but a poor compensation for all the ills of existence.
Fame comes only when deserved, and then it is as inevitable as destiny, for it is destiny.
Fame is a fancied life in others' breath.
Fame is an undertaker that pays but little attention to the living, but bedizens the dead, furnishes out their funerals, and follows them to the grave.
Fame is a revenue payable only to our ghosts.
Fame is a shuttlecock. If it be struck only at one end of a room, it will soon fall to the floor. To keep it up, it must be struck at both ends.
Fame is but the breath of the people, and that often unwholesome.
Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil.
Fame is not won on downy plumes nor under canopies.
Fame is the advantage of being known by
people of whom you yourself know nothing, and for whom you care as little.
Fame is the breath of popular applause.
Fame is the perfume of noble deeds.
Fame is the spur that the clear spirit doth raise, / (That last infirmity of noble minds,) / To scorn delights and live laborious days.
Fame may be compared to a scold; the best way to silence her is to let her alone, and she will at last be out of breath in blowing her own trumpet.
Fame only reflects the estimate in which a
man is held in comparison with others.
Fame sometimes hath created something of nothing.
Fame usually comes to those who are thinking about something else; very rarely to those who say to themselves, "Go to now, let us be a celebrated individual."
Fame, we may understand, is no sure test of merit, but only a probability of such: it is an accident, not a property, of a man; like light, it can give little or nothing, but at most may show what is given; often it is but a false glare, dazzling the eyes of the vulgar, lending, by casual extrinsic splendour, the brightness and manifold glance of the diamond to pebbles of no value.
Fame with men, / Being but ampler means to serve mankind, / Should have small rest or pleasure in herself, / But work as vassal to the larger love, / That dwarfs the petty love of one to one.
Fames et mora bilem in nasum conciunt
Fames, pestis, et bellum, populi sunt pernicies
Familiare est hominibus omnia sibi ignoscere
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Familiarity is a suspension of almost all the laws of civility which libertinism has introduced into society under the notion of ease.
Family likeness has often a deep sadness in it.
Famine hath a sharp and meagre face.
Fammi indovino, e ti farò ricco
Fanaticism is a fire which heats the mind indeed, but heats without purifying.
Fanaticism is such an overwhelming impression of the ideas relating to the future world as disqualifies for the duties of this.
Fanaticism is to superstition what delirium is
to fever and rage to anger.
Fanaticism obliterates the feelings of humanity.
Fanaticism, soberly defined, / Is the false fire of an o'erheated mind.
Fancy is capricious; wit must not be searched for, and pleasantry will not come in at a call.
Fancy is imagination in her youth and adolescence.
Fancy kills and fancy cures.
Fancy requires much, necessity but little.
Fancy restrained may be compared to a fountain, which plays highest by diminishing the aperture.
Fancy rules over two-thirds of the universe, the past and the future, while reality is confined to the present.
Fancy runs most furiously when a guilty conscience drives it.
Fancy surpasses beauty.
Fancy, when once brought into religion, knows not where to stop.
Fanfaronnade
Fanned fires and forced love ne'er did weel.
Fantastic tyrant of the amorous heart, / How hard thy yoke! how cruel is thy dart! / Those 'scape thy anger who refuse thy sway, / And those are punished most who most obey.
Fantasy is of royal blood; the senses, of noble descent; and reason, of civic
origin.
Fantasy is the true heaven-gate and hell-gate of man.
Far ahint maun follow the faster.
Far-awa fowls hae aye fair feathers.
Far better it is to know everything of a little than a little of everything.
Far frae court, far frae care.
Far from all resort of mirth / Save the cricket on the hearth.
Far from home is near to harm.
Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife, /
Their sober wishes never learned to stray; / Along the cool sequester'd vale of life / They kept the noiseless tenor of their way.
Far greater numbers have been lost by hopes / Than all the magazines of daggers, ropes, / And other ammunitions of despair, / Were ever able to despatch by fear.
Far niente
Far-off cows have long horns.
Far-off fowls hae feathers fair, / And aye until ye try them; / Though they seem fair, still have a care, / They may prove waur than I am.
Far or forgot to me is near; / Shadow and
sunlight are the same; / The vanished gods to me appear; / And one to me are shame and fear.
Fare, fac
Fare thee well! and if for ever, / Still for ever fare thee well! / E'en though unforgiving, never / 'Gainst thee shall my heart rebel.
Fare you weel, auld Nickie-ben! / O wad ye tak' a thocht and men'! / Ye aiblins micht--I dinna ken--/ Still hae a stake: / I'm wae to think upo' yon den, / E'en for your sake.
Farewell, a long farewell to all my greatness! / This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth / The tender leaves of hope, to-morrow blossoms, / And bears his blushing honours thick upon him: / The third day comes a frost, a killing frost: / And when he thinks, good easy man, full surely / His greatness is a-ripening, nips his root / And then he falls, as I do.
Farewell! God knows when we shall meet
again. / I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins, / That almost freezes up the heat of life.
Farewell, happy fields, / Where joy for ever dwells; hail, horror, hail!
Farewell the tranquil mind! farewell content! / Farewell the plumed troop and the big wars / That make ambition virtue! oh, farewell! / Farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump, / The spirit-stirring drum, the ear-piercing fife, / The royal banner, and all quality, / Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war!
Farewell to Lochaber, farewell to my Jean, / Where heartsome wi' thee I hae mony days been; / For Lochaber no more, Lochaber no more, / We'll maybe return to Lochaber no more.
Fari quæ sentiat
Farmers are the founders of civilisation.
Farrago libelli
Fas est et ab hoste doceri
Fashionability is a kind of elevated vulgarity.
Fashion, a word which fools use, / Their knavery and folly to excuse.
Fashion begins and ends in two things it
abhors most--singularity and vulgarity.
Fashion is a potency in art, making it hard to judge between the temporary and the lasting.
Fashion is aristocratic-autocratic.
Fashion is, for the most part, nothing but the ostentation of riches.
Fashion is gentility running away from vulgarity, and afraid to be overtaken by it. It is a sign that the two things are not far asunder.
Fashion is the great governor of the world.
Fashion is the science of appearances, and it inspires one with the desire to seem rather than to be.
Fashion seldom interferes with Nature without diminishing her grace and efficiency.
Fashion wears out more apparel than the man.
Fast and loose.
Fast bind, fast find.
Faster than his tongue / Did make offence, his eye did heal it up.
Fastidientis est stomachi multa degustare
Fasti et nefasti dies
Fat hens are aye ill layers.
Fat paunches make lean pates, and dainty
bits / Make rich the ribs, but bankrupt quite the wits.
Fata obstant
Fata volentem ducunt, nolentem trahunt
Fate follows and limits power; power attends and antagonises fate; we must respect fate as natural history, but there is more than natural history.
Fate hath no voice but the heart's impulses.
Fate is a distinguished but an expensive tutor.
Fate is character.
Fate is ever better than design.
Fate is known to us as limitations.
Fate is nothing but the deeds committed in a former state of existence.
Fate is the friend of the good, the guide of the wise, the tyrant of the foolish, the enemy of the bad.
Fate is unpenetrated causes.
Fate leads the willing, but drives the stubborn.
Fate made me what I am, may make me nothing; / But either that or nothing must I be; / I will not live degraded.
Fate steals along with silent tread, / Found
oftenest in what least we dread; / Frowns in the storm with angry brow, / But in the sunshine strikes the blow.
Fatetur facinus is qui judicium fugit
Father of all! in every age, / In every clime adored, / By saint, by savage, and by sage, / Jehovah, Jove, or Lord.
Fathers alone a father's heart can know, / What secret tides of sweet enjoyment flow / When brothers love! But if their hate succeeds, / They wage the war, but 'tis the father bleeds.
Fathers first enter bonds to Nature's ends; / And are her sureties ere they are a friend's.
Fathers that wear rags / Do make their children
blind; / But fathers that wear bags / Do make their children kind.
Fathers their children and themselves abuse / That wealth a husband for their daughters choose.
Fatigatis humus cubile est
Fatta la legge, trovata la malizia
Faulheit ist der Schlüssel zur Armuth
Faulheit ist Dummheit des Körpers, und
Dummheit Faulheit des Geistes
Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null.
Faults are beauties in lover's eyes.
Faults are thick when love is thin.
Faute de grives le diable mange des merles
Faux pas
Favete linguis
Favourable chance is the god of all men who follow their own devices instead of obeying a law they believe in.
Favour and gifts disturb justice.
Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised.
Favours, and especially pecuniary ones, are
generally fatal to friendship.
Favours unused are favours abused.
Fax mentis honestæ gloria
Fax mentis incendium gloriæ
Fay ce que voudras
Fear always springs from ignorance.
Fear and sorrow are the true characters and inseparable companions of most melancholy.
Fear can keep a man out of danger, but courage only can support him in it.
Fear God and keep his commandments; for this is the whole duty of man.
Fear God; honour the king.
Fear guards the vineyard.
Fear guides more to their duty than gratitude.
Fear has many eyes.
Fear hath torment.
Fear is an instructor of great sagacity, and the herald of all revolutions. It has boded, and mowed, and gibbered for ages over government and property.
Fear is described by Spenser to ride in armour,
at the clashing whereof he looks afeared of himself.
Fear is far more painful to cowardice than death to true courage.
Fear is the underminer of all determinations; and necessity, the victorious rebel of all laws.
Fear is the virtue of slaves; but the heart that loveth is willing.
Fear is worse than fighting.
Fear not that tyrants shall rule for ever, / Or
the priests of the bloody faith; / They stand on the brink of that mighty river / Whose waves they have tainted with death.
Fear not the confusion

of thee, but that within thee; strive after unity, but seek it not in uniformity; strive after repose, but through the equipoise, thy activity.
Fear not the future; weep not for the past.
Fear not, then, thou child infirm; / There's no god dare wrong a worm.
Fear not where Heaven bids come; / Heaven's never deaf but when man's heart is dumb.
Fear of change / Perplexes monarchs.
Fear oftentimes restraineth words, but makes not thought to cease.
Fear sometimes adds wings to the heels, and sometimes nails them to the ground and fetters them from moving.
Fear to do base, unworthy things is valour; / If they be done to us, to suffer them / Is valour too.
Fear's a fine spur.
Fear's a large promiser; who subject live /
To that base passion, know not what they give.
Fears of the brave and follies of the wise.
Fearfully and wonderfully made.
Fearless minds climb soonest into crowns.
Feasting makes no friendship.
Feast-won, fast-lost.
Feather by feather the goose is plucked.
Fecisti enim nos ad te, et cor inquietum donec requiescat in te
Fecit
Fecundi calices quem non fecere disertum?
Fede ed innocenzia son reperte / Solo ne' pargoletti
Feeble souls always set to work at the wrong time.
Feebleness is sometimes the best security.
Feed a cold and starve a fever.
Feed no man in his sins; for adulation / Doth make thee parcel-devil in damnation.
Feeling comes before reflection.
Feeling should be stirred only when it can be sent to labour for worthy ends.
Feelings are always purest and most glowing
in the hour of meeting and farewell; like the glaciers, which are transparent and rose-hued only at sunrise and sunset, but throughout the day grey and cold.
Feelings are like chemicals; the more you analyse them, the worse they smell.
Feelings come and go like light troops following the victory of the present; but principles, like troops of the line, are undisturbed, and stand fast.
Feelings, like flowers and butterflies, last longer the later they are delayed.
Fehlst du, lass dich's nicht betrüben; Denn der Mangel führt zum Lieben; / Kannst dich nicht vom Fehl befrein, / Wirst du Andern gern verzeihn
Feindlich ist die Welt / Und falsch gesinnt;
Es liebt ein jeder nur / Sich selbst
Felices errore suo
Felices ter et amplius / Quos irrupta tenet copula, nec, malis / Divulsus quærimoniis, / Suprema citius solvet amor die
Felicitas nutrix est iracundiæ
Feliciter is sapit, qui periculo alieno sapit
Felicity lies much in fancy.
Felicity, not fluency, of language is a merit.
Felix, heu nimium felix
Felix qui nihil debet
Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas
Felix, qui quod amat, defendere fortiter andet
Fell luxury! more perilous to youth than storms or quicksands, poverty or chains.
Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more / Than when it bites but lanceth not the sore.
Fellowship in treason is a bad ground of confidence.
Felo de se
Female friendships are of rapid growth.
Feme covert
Feme sole
Femme, argent et vin ont leur bien et leur venin
Femme de chambre
Femme de charge
Femme rit quand elle peut, et pleure quand elle veut
Feræ naturæ
Fere libenter homines id quod volunt credunt
Feriis caret necessitas
Ferme fugiendo in media fata ruitur
Ferme modèle
Fern von Menschen wachsen Grundsätze; unter ihnen Handlungen
Ferreus assiduo consumitur annulus usu
Ferro, non gladio
Fervet olla, vivit amicitia
Fervet opus
Festina lente
Festinare nocet, nocet et cunctatio sæpe; / Tempore quæque suo qui facit, ille sapit
Festinatione nil tutius in discordiis civilibus
Festinatio tarda est
Fetch a spray from the wood and place it on your mantel-shelf, and your household ornaments will seem plebeian beside its nobler fashion and bearing. It will wave superior there, as if used to a more refined and polished circle. It has a salute and response to all your enthusiasm and heroism.
Fête champêtre
Fêtes des mœurs
Fette Küche, magere Erbschaft
Feu de joie
Few are fit to be entrusted with themselves.
Few are open to conviction, but the majority of men to persuasion.
Few, few shall part where many meet; The snow shall be their winding-sheet, / And every turf beneath their feet / Shall be a soldier's sepulchre.
Few have all they need, none all they wish.
Few have borne unconsciously the spell of loveliness.
Few have the gift of discerning when to have done.
Few have wealth, but all must have a home.
Few love to hear the sins they love to act.
Few may play with the devil and win.
Few men are much worth loving in whom there is not something well worth laughing at.
Few men have been admired by their domestics.
Few men dare show their thoughts of worst or
best.
Few men have any next; they live from hand to mouth without plan, and are ever at the end of their line.
Few men have imagination enough for the truth of reality.
Few men have virtue to withstand the highest bidder.
Few minds wear out; more rust out.
Few mortals are so insensible that their affections
cannot be gained by mildness, their confidence by sincerity, their hatred by scorn or neglect.
Few of the many wise apothegms which have been uttered, from the time of the seven sages of Greece to that of Poor Richard, have prevented a single foolish action.
Few people know how to be old.
Few persons have courage to appear as good as they really are.
Few spirits are made better by the pain and languor of sickness; as few great pilgrims become eminent saints.
Few take wives for God's sake, or for fair
looks.
Few things are impossible to diligence and skill.
Few things are impracticable in themselves; and it is from want of application rather than want of means that men fail of success.
Few things are more unpleasant than the transaction of business with men who are above knowing or caring what they have to do.
Fiandeira, fiai manso, que me estorvais, que estou rezando
Fiar de Dios sobre buena prenda
Fiat experimentum in corpore vili
Fiat justitiam, pereat mundus
Fiat justitia, ruat cœlum
Fiat lux
Fickleness has its rise in the experience of the
deceptiveness of present pleasures, and in ignorance of the vanity of absent ones.
Ficta voluptatis causa sit proxima veris
Fiction is a potent agent for good in the hands of the good.
Fiction lags after truth, invention is unfruitful, and imagination cold and barren.
Fiction, while the feigner of it knows that he is feigning, partakes, more than we suspect, of the nature of lying; and has ever an, in some degree, unsatisfactory character.
Fictis meminerit nos jocari fabulis
Fidarsi è bene, ma non fidarsi è meglio
Fidati era un buon uomo, Nontifidare era meglio
Fide abrogata, omnis humana societas tollitur
Fide et amore
Fide et fiducia
Fide et fortitudine
Fide et literis
Fide, non armis
Fidei coticula crux
Fidei defensor
Fideli certa merces
Fidelis ad urnam
Fidelis et audax
Fidélité est de Dieu
Fideliter et constanter
Fidelity, diligence, decency, are good and indispensable; yet, without faculty, without light, they will not do the work.
Fidelity is the sister of justice.
Fidelity purchased with money, money can destroy.
Fidelius rident tiguria
Fidem qui perdit perdere ultra nil potest
Fidem qui perdit, quo se servet relicuo?
Fides facit fidem
Fides probata coronat
Fides Punica
Fides servanda est
Fides sit penes auctorem
Fides ut anima, unde abiit, eo nunquam redit
Fidus Achates
Fidus et audax
Fie! fie! how wayward is this foolish love, / That like a testy babe will scratch the nurse, / And presently, all humbled, kiss the rod.
Fiel pero desdichado
Fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds, / In ranks and squadrons, and right form of war, / Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol.
Fieri facias
Fight on, thou brave true heart, and falter not, through dark fortune and through bright, the cause thou fightest for, so far as it is true, is very sure of victory.
Fight the good fight.
Filii non plus possessionum quam morborum
hæredes sumus
Filius nullius
Filius terræ
Fille de chambre
Fille de joie
Fin contre fin
Fin de siècle
Find earth where grows no weed, and you may find a heart where no error grows.
Find employment for the body, and the mind will find enjoyment for itself.
Find fault, when you must find fault, in private, if possible, and some time after the offence, rather than at the time.
Find mankind where thou wilt, thou findest it
in living movement, in progress faster or slower; the phœnix soars aloft, hovers with outstretched wings, filling earth with her music; or, as now, she sinks, and with spheral swan-song immolates herself in flame, that she may soar the higher and sing the clearer.
Find out men's wants and will, / And meet them there. All worldly joys go less / To the one joy of doing kindnesses.
Finding your able man, and getting him invested with the symbols of ability, is the business, well or ill accomplished, of all social procedure whatsoever in this world.
Fine art is that in which the hand, the head, and the heart of man go together; the head inferior to the heart, and the hand inferior to both heart and head.
Fine by defect and delicately weak.
Fine by degrees and beautifully less.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Fine feelings, without vigour of reason, are in the situation of the extreme feathers of a peacock's tail--dragging in the mud.
Fine manners are the mantle of fair minds. None are truly great without this ornament.
Fine manners need the support of fine manners in others.
Fine sense and exalted sense are not half so
useful as common sense.
Fine speeches are the instruments of knaves / Or fools, that use them when they want good sense; / Honesty needs no disguise or ornament.
Fine words without deeds go not far.
Finem respice
Finge datos currus, quid agas?
Fingers were made before forks, and hands
before knives.
Fingunt se medicos quivis idiota, sacerdos, Judæus, monachus, histrio, rasor, anus
Finis coronat opus
Fire and sword are but slow engines of destruction in comparison with the tongue of the babbler.
Fire and water are good servants but bad masters.
Fire in the heart sends smoke into the head.
Fire is the best of servants; but what a master!
Fire maks an auld wife nimble.
Fire that's closest kept burns most of all.
Fire trieth iron, and temptation a just man.
Firmior quo paratior
Firmness, both in sufferance and exertion, is a character I would wish to possess. I have always despised the whining yelp of complaint and the cowardly feeble resolve.
First assay / To stuff thy mind with solid bravery; / Then march on gallant: get substantial worth: / Boldness gilds finely, and will set it forth.
First cast the beam out of thine own eye, and then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.
First catch your hare.
First come, first served.
First deserve and then desire.
First flower of the earth and first gem of the sea.
First keep thyself in peace, and then thou shalt be able to keep peace among others.
First must the dead letter of religion own itself dead, and drop piecemeal into dust, if the living spirit of religion, freed from its charnel-house, is to arise in us, new-born of heaven, and with new healing under its wings.
First resolutions are not always the wisest, but they are usually the most honest.
First worship God; he that forgets to pray / Bids not himself good-morrow nor good day.
Fishes live in the sea, ... as men do on land--the great ones eat up the little ones.
Fit cito per multas præda petita manus
Fit erranti medicina confessio
Fit fabricando faber
Fit in dominatu servitus, in servitute dominatus
Fit scelus indulgens per nubila sæcula virtus
Fit the foot to the shoe, not the shoe to the foot.
Fit words are fine, but often fine words are
not fit.
Five great intellectual professions have hitherto existed in every civilised nation: the soldier's, to defend it; the pastor's, to teach it; the physician's, to keep it in health; the lawyer's, to enforce justice in it; and the merchant's, to provide for it; and the duty of all these men is, on due occasion, to die for it.
Five minutes of to-day are worth as much to me as five minutes in the next millennium.
Fix'd to no spot is happiness sincere; / 'Tis nowhere to be found, or everywhere.
Fixed like a plant on his peculiar spot, / To draw nutrition, propagate, and rot.
Flagrante bello
Flagrante delicto
Flames rise and sink by fits; at last they soar / In one bright flame, and then return no more.
Flamma fumo est proxima
Flatter not the rich; neither do thou appear willingly before the great.
Flatterers are cats that lick before, and scratch
behind.
Flatterers are the bosom enemies of princes.
Flatterers are the worst kind of traitors.
Flattery brings friends, but the truth begets enmity.
Flattery corrupts both the receiver and the giver, and adulation is not of more service to the people than to kings.
Flattery is a base coin, to which only our
vanity gives currency.
Flattery is the bellows blows up sin; / The thing the which is flattered, but a spark, / To which that blast gives heat and stronger glowing; / Whereas reproof, obedient and in order, / Fits kings, as they are men, for they may err.
Flattery is the destruction of all good fellowship.
Flattery is the food of pride, and may be well assimilated to those cordials which hurt the constitution while they exhilarate the spirits.
Flattery labours under the odious charge of servility.
Flattery sits in the parlour when plain dealing
is kicked out of doors.
Flattery's the turnpike road to Fortune's door.
Flebile ludibrium
Flebit, et insignis tota cantabitur urbe
Flectere si nequeo superos, Acheronta movebo
Flecti, non frangi
Flee sloth, for the indolence of the soul is the decay of the body.
Flee you ne'er so fast, your fortune will be at your tail.
Flesh will warm in a man to his kin against his will.
Flet victus, victor interiit
Fleur d'eau
Fleur de terre
Fleurs-de-lis
Fleying
Flies are easier caught with honey than vinegar.
Fling away ambition; / By that sin fell the
angels; how can man, then, / The image of his Maker, hope to win by it?
Flints may be melted, but an ungrateful heart cannot; no, not by the strongest and noblest flame.
Floriferis ut apes in saltibus omnia libant
Flour cannot be sown and seed-corn ought not to be ground.
Flowers and fruits are always fit presents--flowers, because they are a proud assertion that a ray of beauty outvalues all the utilities of man.
Flowers are the beautiful hieroglyphics of
Nature, by which she indicates how much she loves us.
Flowers are the pledges of fruit.
Flowers are the sweetest things God ever made and forgot to put a soul into.
Flowers never emit so sweet and strong a fragrance as before a storm.
Flowers of rhetoric in sermons and serious discourses are like the blue and red flowers in corn, pleasing to those who come only for amusement, but prejudicial to him who would reap profit from it.
Fluctus in simpulo exitare
Fluvius cum mari certas
Fly idleness, which yet thou canst not fly / By dressing, mistressing, and compliment. / If these take up thy day, the sun will cry / Against thee; for his light was only lent.
Fœdum inceptu, fœdum exitu
Fœnum habet in cornu, longe fuge, dummodo risum / Excutiat sibi, non hic cuiquam parcit amico
Foliis tantum ne carmina manda; / Ne turbata volent rapidis ludibria ventis
Folk canna help a' their kin
Folk wi' lang noses aye tak' till themsels.
Folks as have no mind to be o' use have always the luck to be out o' the road when there's anything to be done.
Folks must put up with their own kin as they put up with their own noses.
Folle est la brébis qui au loup se confesse
Follow love and it will flee, flee love and it
will follow thee.
Follow the copy though it fly out of the window.
Follow the customs or fly the country.
Follow the devil faithfully, you are sure to go to the devil.
Follow the river, and you will get to the sea.
Follow the road, and you will come to an inn.
Follow the wise few rather than the vulgar many.
Folly, as it grows in years, / The more extravagant appears.
Folly ends where genuine hope begins.
Folly is its own burden.
Folly is the most incurable of maladies.
Folly, letting down buckets into empty wells, and growing old with drawing nothing up.
Folly loves the martyrdom of fame.
Fond fools / Promise themselves a name from building churches.
Fond gaillard
Fons et origo mali
Fons malorum
Fons omnium viventium
Fontes ipsi sitiunt
Food can only be got out of the ground, or the air, or the sea.
Food fills the wame and keeps us livin'; /
Though life's a gift no worth receivin', / When heavy dragg'd wi' pine and grievin'; / But oil'd by thee, the wheels o' life gae doonhill scrievin' / Wi' rattlin' glee.
Food for powder.
Fool before all is he who does not instantly seize the right moment; who has what he loves before his eyes, and yet swerves

Fool not; for all may have, / If they dare try, a glorious life or grave.
Fool, not to know that love endures no tie, / And Jove but laughs at lovers' perjury.
Fool of fortune.
Fooled thou must be, though wisest of the wise; / Then be the fool of virtue, not of vice.
Foolish legislation is a rope of sand, which perishes in the twisting.
Foolish people are a hundred times more averse to meet with wise people than wise people are to meet with foolish.
Fools and bairns shouldna see things half done.
Fools and obstinate men make lawyers rich.
Fools are apt to imitate only the defects of their betters.
Fools are aye fond o' flittin', and wise men o' sittin'.
Fools are aye seeing ferlies
Fools are known by looking wise.
Fools are my theme; let satire be my song.
Fools ask what's o'clock, but wise men know their time.
Fools build houses, and wise men buy them.
Fools can indeed find fault, but cannot act more wisely.
Fools for arguments use wagers.
Fools grant whate'er ambition craves, / And
men, once ignorant, are slaves.
Fools grow of themselves without sowing or planting.
Fools grow without watering.
Fools invent fashions and wise men follow them.
Fools learn nothing from wise men, but wise men much from fools.
Fools make a mock at sin.
Fools mak' feasts, and wise men eat them. / Wise men mak' jests, and fools repeat them.
Fools may our scorn, not envy raise, / For envy is a kind of praise.
Fools measure actions after they are done by the event; wise men beforehand, by the rules of reason and right.
Fools need no passport.
Fools ravel and wise men redd
Fools, to talking ever prone, / Are sure to make their follies known.
Fools with bookish knowledge are children with edged weapons; they hurt themselves and put others in pain.
Footpaths give a private, human touch to the landscape that roads do not. They are sacred to the human foot. They have the sentiment of domesticity, and suggest the way to cottage doors and to simple, primitive times.
Foppery is never cured; once a coxcomb, always a coxcomb.
For age, long age! / Nought else divides us from the fresh young days / Which men call ancient.
For a genuine man it is no evil to be poor.
For a just man falleth seven times, and riseth up again.
For a large conscience is all one, / And signifies
the same with none.
For all a rhetorician's rules / Teach nothing but to name his tools.
For all he did he had a reason, / For all he said, a word in season; / And ready ever was to quote / Authorities for what he wrote.
For all men live and judge amiss / Whose talents do not jump with his.
For all right judgment of any man or thing it is useful, nay, essential, to see his good qualities before pronouncing on his bad.
For all their luxury was doing good.
For an honest man half his wits are enough; for a knave, the whole are too little.
For an orator delivery is everything.
For a republic you must have men.
For as a fly that goes to bed / Rests with his tail above his head, / So, in this mongrel state of ours, / The rabble are the supreme powers.
For as a ship without a helm is tossed to and
fro by the waves, so the man who is careless and forsaketh his purpose is many ways tempted.
For a' that, and a' that, / Our toils obscure, and a' that; / The rank is but the guinea's stamp, / The man's the gowd for a' that.
For a tint
For aught I see, they are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that starve with nothing.
For aught that ever I could read, / Could ever hear by tale or history, / The course of true love never did run smooth.
For a web begun God sends thread.
For behaviour, men learn it, as they take diseases, one of another.
For blessings ever wait on virtuous deeds, / And though a late, a sure reward succeeds.
For Brutus is an honourable man, / So are they all, all honourable men.
For captivity, perhaps your poor watchdog is as sorrowful a type as you will easily find.
For contemplation he and valour form'd, / For
softness she and sweet attractive grace; / He for God only, she for God in him, / His fair large front and eye sublime declared.
For cowards the road of desertion should be left open; they will carry over to the enemy nothing but their fears.
For dear to gods and men is sacred song.
For ebbing resolution ne'er returns, / But falls still further from its former shore.
For emulation hath a thousand sons, / That one by one pursue; if you give way, / Or hedge aside from the direct forthright, / Like to an enter'd tide, they all rush by, And leave you hindmost.
For ever and a day.
For ever is not a category that can establish itself in this world of time.
For every dawn that breaks brings a new world, / And every budding bosom a new life.
For every grain of wit there is a grain of folly.
For every ten jokes thou hast got an hundred enemies.
For everything you have missed, you have
gained something else; and for everything you gain, you lose something.
For fate has wove the thread of life with pain, / And twins e'en from the birth are misery and man.
For faith, and peace, and mighty love / That from the Godhead flow, / Show'd them the life of heaven above / Springs from the earth below.
For fault o' wise men fools sit on binks
For fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
For forms of government let fools contest; /
Whate'er is best administered is best.
For Freedom's battle, once begun, / Bequeath'd by bleeding sire to son, / Though baffled oft, is ever won.
For glances beget ogles, ogles sighs, / Sighs wishes, wishes words, and words a letter; / And then God knows what mischief may arise / When love links two young people in one fetter.
For gold the merchant ploughs the main, / The farmer ploughs the manor; / But glory is the soldier's prize, / The soldier's wealth is honour.
For good and evil must in our actions meet; / Wicked is not much worse than indiscreet.
For greatest scandal waits on greatest state.
For grief indeed is love, and grief beside.
For he being dead, with him is beauty slain, / And, beauty dead, black chaos comes again.
For he, by geometric scale, / Could take the size of pots of ale.
For he is but a bastard to the time / That doth not smack of observation.
For he lives twice who can at once employ /
The present well and e'en the past enjoy.
For he that fights and runs away / May live to fight another day; / But he who is in battle slain, / Can never rise and fight again.
For he that worketh high and wise, / Nor pauses in his plan, / Will take the sun out of the skies / Ere freedom out of man.
For his bounty, / There was no winter in't; an autumn 'twas, / That grew the more by reaping.
For his chaste Muse employed her heaven-taught lyre / None but the noblest passions to inspire, / Not one immoral, one corrupted thought, / One line which, dying, he could wish to blot.
For hope is but the dream of those that wake.
For I am nothing if not critical.
For I am full of spirit, and resolved / To meet all perils very constantly.
For I say this is death, and the sole death, / When a man's loss comes to him from his gain, / Darkness from light, from knowledge ignorance, / And lack of love from love made manifest.
For it so falls out, / That what we have we prize not to the worth / While we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost, / Why, then we rack the value.
For it stirs the blood in an old man's heart, / And makes his pulses fly, / To catch the thrill of a happy voice / And the light of a pleasant eye.
For just experience tells, in every soil, / That
those that think must govern those that toil.
For knowledge is a barren tree and bare, / Bereft of God, and duty but a word, / And strength but tyranny, and love, desire, / And purity a folly.
For knowledge is a steep which few may climb, / While duty is a path which all may tread.
For let our finger ache, and it endues / Our other healthful members ev'n to that sense / Of pain.
For loan oft loses both itself and friend.
For love of grace, / Lay not the flattering
unction to your soul / That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
For lovers' eyes more sharply sighted be / Than other men's, and in dear love's delight / See more than any other eyes can see.
For man's well-being faith is properly the one thing needful; with it, martyrs, otherwise weak, can cheerfully endure the shame and the cross; and without it, worldlings puke up their sick existence by suicide in the midst of luxury.
For man there is but one misfortune, when some idea lays hold of him which exerts no influence upon his active life, or still more, which withdraws him from it.
For men are brought to worse diseases / By taking physic than diseases, / And therefore commonly recover / As soon as doctors give them over.
For men at most differ as heaven and earth, /
But women, worst and best, as heaven and hell.
For men cherish love, for gods reverence.
For men may come and men may go, / But I go on for ever.
For modes of faith let graceless zealots fight; / His can't be wrong whose life is in the right.
For murder, though it hath no tongue, will speak / With most miraculous organ.
For my means, I'll husband them so well, /
They shall go far with little.
For my name and memory I leave to men's charitable speeches, to foreign nations, and to the next ages.
For nought so vile that on the earth doth live, / But to the earth some special good doth give; / Nor aught so good, but strain'd from that fair use, / Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse.
For now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face.
For oaths are straws, men's faith are wafer cakes, / And holdfast is the only dog, my duck.
For of all sad words of tongue or pen, / The
saddest were these: "It might have been."
For of fortunes sharpe adversite, / The worst kind of infortune is this, / A man that hath been in prosperite, / And it remember when it passéd is.
For of the soul the body form doth take, / For soul is form, and doth the body make.
For one man who can stand prosperity, there are a hundred that will stand adversity.
For one person who can think, there are at least a hundred who can observe. An accurate observer is, no doubt, rare; but an accurate thinker is far rarer.
For one rich man that is content there are a
hundred who are not.
For one word a man is often deemed wise, and for one word he is often deemed foolish.
For our pleasure, the lackeyed train, the slow parading pageant, with all the gravity of grandeur, moves in review; a single coat, or a single footman, answers all the purposes of the most indolent refinement as well; and those who have twenty, may be said to keep one for their own pleasure, and the other nineteen merely for ours.
For pity is the virtue of the law, / And none but tyrants use it cruelly.
For pleasures past I do not grieve, / Nor perils gathering near; / My greatest grief is that I leave / Nothing that claims a tear.
For poems to have beauty of style is not
enough; they must have pathos also, and lead at will the hearer's soul.
For present grief there is always a remedy. However much thou sufferest, hope. The greatest happiness of man is hope.
For rarely do we meet in one combined / A beauteous body and a virtuous mind.
For rhetoric, he could not ope / His mouth, but out there flew a trope.
For rhyme the rudder is of verses, / With which, like ships, they steer their courses.
For right is right, since God is God, / And right the day must win; / To doubt would be disloyalty, / To falter would be sin.
For sacred even to gods is misery.
For Satan finds some mischief still / For idle
hands to do.
For slander lives upon successión, / For ever housed where it gets possessión.
For solitude sometimes is best society, / And short retirement urges sweet return.
For sufferance is the badge of all our tribe.
For suffering and enduring there is no remedy but striving and doing.
For that fine madness still he did retain /
Which rightly should possess a poet's brain.
For the apotheosis of Reason we have substituted that of Instinct; and we call everything instinct which we find in ourselves, and for which we cannot trace any rational foundation.
For the bow cannot possibly stand always bent, nor can human nature or human frailty subsist without some lawful recreation.
For the buyer a hundred eyes are too few, for the seller one is enough.
For thee the family of man has no use; it rejects thee; thou art wholly as a dissevered limb: so be it; perhaps it is better so.
For the fashion of this world passeth away.
For the gay beams of lightsome day / Gild but to flout the ruins grey.
For the greatest crime of man is that he was born.
For the narrow mind, whatever he attempts, is still a trade; for the higher, an art; and the highest, in doing one thing does all; or, to speak less paradoxically, in the one thing which he does rightly, he sees the likeness of all that is done rightly.
For the rain it raineth every day.
For there's nae luck aboot the hoose, / There's
nae luck ava', / There's little pleesure in the hoose / When oor guidman's awa'.
For there was never yet philosopher / That could endure the toothache patiently.
For the sake of one good action a hundred evil actions should be condoned.
For the son of man there is no noble crown, well-worn or even ill-worn, but is a crown of thorns.
For the true the price is paid before you enjoy it; for the false, after you enjoy it.
For the world was built in order, / And the
atoms march in tune; / Rhyme the pipe, and the Time the warder, / The sun obeys them and the moon.
For they can conquer who believe they can.
For 'tis a truth well known to most, / That whatsoever thing is lost, / We seek it, ere it comes to light, / In every cranny but the right.
For 'tis the mind that makes the body rich: / And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds, / So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
For to him that is joined to all the living there is hope: for a living dog is better than a dead lion.
For to see and eek for to be seye.
For truth has such a face and such a mien, / As to be loved needs only to be seen.
For truth is precious and divine, / Too rich a pearl for carnal swine.
For use almost can change the stamp of Nature, / And either curb the devil or throw him out / With wondrous potency.
For us, the winds do blow, / The earth doth rest, heaven move, and fountains flow; / Nothing we see but means our good, / As our delight, or as our treasure; / The whole is either our cupboard of food, / Or cabinet of pleasure.
For virtue's sake I am here; but if a man,
for his task, forgets and sacrifices all, why shouldst not thou?
For virtue's self may too much zeal be had; / The worst of madmen is a saint run mad.
For want of a block a man will stumble at a straw.
For want of a nail the shoe was lost, for want of a shoe the horse was lost, and for want of a horse the rider was lost.
For wealth is all things that conduce / To man's destruction or his use; / A standard both to buy and sell / All things from heaven down to hell.
For what are men who grasp at praise sublime, /
But bubbles on the rapid stream of time, / That rise and fall, that swell and are no more, / Born and forgot, ten thousand in an hour.
For what are they all in their high conceit, / When man in the bush with God may meet?
For what thou hast not, still thou striv'st to get, / And what thou hast, forgetst.
For when disputes are wearied out, / 'Tis interest still resolves the doubt.
For where is any author in the world / Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye?
For while a youth is lost in soaring thought, /
And while a mind grows sweet and beautiful, / And while a spring-tide coming lights the earth, / And while a child, and while a flower is born, / And while one wrong cries for redress and finds / A soul to answer, still the world is young.
For whom ill is fated, him it will strike.
For whom the heart of man shuts out, / Straightway the heart of God takes in, / And fences them all round about / With silence 'mid the world's loud din.
For who to dumb forgetfulness a prey, / This pleasing anxious being e'er resigned, / Left the warm precincts of the cheerful day, / Nor cast one longing lingering look behind?
For who would lose, / Though full of pain, this intellectual being, / Those thoughts that wander through eternity; / To perish rather, swallowed up and lost, / In the wide womb of uncreated night?
For wisdom cries out in the streets, and no man regards it.
For youth no less becomes / The light and
careless livery that it wears, / Than settled age his sables and his weeds, / Importing health and graveness.
Forbear to judge, for we are sinners all.
Forbearance is not acquittance.
Forbid a fool do a thing, and that he will do.
Forbidden fruit is sweetest.
Force and right rule everything in this world;
force till right is ready.
Force can never annul right.
Force is no argument.
Forced love does not last.
Forced prayers are no gude for the soul.
Force n'a pas droit
Force rules the world, and not opinion, but opinion is that which makes use of force.
Force without forecast is of little avail.
Foresight is indeed necessary in trusting, but still more necessary in distrusting.
Forewarned, forearmed.
Forget the hours of thy distress, but never
forget what they taught thee.
Forget thyself to marble.
Forgetting of a wrong is a mild revenge.
Forgetting one's self, or knowing one's self, around these everything turns.
Forgiveness is better than revenge; for forgiveness is the sign of a gentle nature, but revenge the sign of a savage nature.
Forgiveness is commendable, but apply not
ointment to the wound of an oppressor.
Forgiveness is the divinest of victories.
Forgiveness to the injured does belong, / But they ne'er pardon who have done the wrong.
Forgiveness is not forgotten.
Forgotten pains, when follow gains.
Forma bonum fragile est
Forma viros neglecta decet
Formerly it was the fashion to preach the natural; now it is the ideal.
Formerly the richest countries were those in which Nature was most bountiful; now the richest countries are those in which man is most active.
Formerly when great fortunes were only made in war, war was business; but now when great fortunes are only made by business, business is war.
Formidabilior cervorum exercitus, duce leone,
quam leonum cervo
Formosa facies muta commendatio est
Formosos sæpe inveni pessimos, / Et turpi facie multos cognovi optimos
Forms which grow round a substance will be true, good; forms which are consciously put round a substance, bad.
Formulas are the very skin and muscular tissue of a man's life; and a most blessed indispensable thing, so long as they have vitality withal, and are a living skin and tissue to him.
Forsake not God till you find a better maister.
Forsan et hæc olim meminisse juvabit; Durate, et vosmet rebus servate secundis
Forsan miseros meliora sequentur
Fors et virtus miscentur in unum
Forte è l'aceto di vin dolce
Forte et fidele
Fortem facit vicina libertas senem
Fortem posce animum mortis terrore carentem, / Qui spatium vitæ extremum inter munera ponat / Naturæ
Fortes creantur fortibus et bonis: / Est in juvencis, est in equis patrum / Virtus, nec imbellem feroces / Progenerant aquilæ columbam
Forte scutum salus ducum
Fortes fortuna adjuvat
Fortes in fine assequendo et suaves in modo assequendi simus
Forti et fideli nihil difficile
Fortify courage with the true rampart of patience.
Fortify yourself with moderation; for this is an impregnable fortress.
Fortior et potentior est dispositio legis quam hominis
Fortis cadere, cedere non potest
Fortis et constantis animi est, non perturbari in rebus asperis
Fortis sub forte fatiscet
Fortiter et recte
Fortiter ferendo vincitur malum quod evitari non potest
Fortiter, fideliter, feliciter
Fortiter geret crucem
Fortiter in re, suaviter in modo
Fortitude is the guard and support of the
other virtues.
Fortitude is the marshal of thought, the armour of the will, and the fort of reason.
Fortitude is to be seen in toils and dangers; temperance in the denial of sensual pleasures; prudence in the choice between good and evil; justice in awarding to every one his due.
Fortitude rises upon an opposition; and, like a river, swells the higher for having its course stopped.
Fortitudini
Fortuito quodam concursu atomorum
Fortunæ cætera mando
Fortunæ filius
Fortunæ majoris honos, erectus et acer
Fortuna favet fatuis
Fortuna favet fortibus
Fortuna magna magna domino est servitus
Fortunam debet quisque manere suam
Fortuna meliores sequitur
Fortuna miserrima tuta est
Fortuna multis dat nimium, nulli satis
Fortuna nimium quem fovet, stultum facit
Fortuna non mutat genus
Fortuna obesse nulli contenta est semel
Fortuna opes auferre, non animum potest
Fortuna parvis momentis magnas rerum commutationes
efficit
Fortuna sequatur
Fortunato omne solum patria est
Fortunatas et ille deos qui novit agrestes
Fortunatus' purse
Fortuna vitrea est, tum cum splendet frangitur
Fortune brings in some boats that are ill-steered.
Fortune can take from us nothing but what she gave.
Fortune does not change men; it only unmasks them.
Fortune favours the brave, as the old proverb says, but forethought much more.
Fortune has rarely condescended to be the
companion of genius.
Fortune hath something of the nature of a woman, who, if she be too closely wooed, goes commonly the farther off.
Fortune is like a mirror--it does not alter men; it only shows men just as they are.
Fortune is like the market, where many times, if you can stay a little, the price will fall.
Fortune is merry, and in this mood will give us anything.
Fortune is not content to do a man one ill
turn.
Fortune is the rod of the weak, and the staff of the brave.
Fortune makes folly her peculiar care.
Fortune makes him a fool whom she makes her darling.
Fortune often knocks at the door, but the fool does not invite her in.
Fortune reigns in the gifts of the world, not in
the lineaments of nature.
Fortune! There is no fortune; all is trial, or punishment, or recompense, or foresight.
Fortune turns round like a mill-wheel, and he that was yesterday at the top lies to-day at the bottom.
Forward, forward let us range, / Let the great world spin for ever down the ringing grooves of change.
Forwardness spoils manners.
Foster the beautiful, and every hour thou
callest new flowers to birth.
Foul cankering rust the hidden treasure frets; / But gold that's put to use, more gold begets.
Foul deeds will rise, / Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Fou (full) o' courtesy, fou o' craft.
Four eyes see more than two.
Four hostile newspapers are more to be feared than a thousand bayonets.
Foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests; but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head.
Foy est tout
Foy pour devoir
Frae saving comes having.
Fragili quærens illidere dentem / Offendet solido
Fraile que pide por Dios pide por dos
Frailty, thy name is woman.
Frame your mind to mirth and merriment, / Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life.
Frangas, non flectes
Frappe fort
Fraternité ou la Mort
Frauen, richtet nur nie des Mannes einzelne Thaten; / Aber über den Mann sprechet das richtende Wort
Frauen und Jungfrauen soll man loben, es sei wahr oder erlogen
Fraus est celare fraudem
Frau und Mond leuchten mit fremden Licht
Freedom and slavery, the one is the name of virtue, the other of vice, and both are acts of the will.
Freedom and whisky gang thegither! / Tak' aff your dram.
Freedom consists not in refusing to recognise anything above us, but in respecting something which is above us.
Freedom exists only with power.
Freedom has a thousand charms to show, / That slaves, howe'er contented, never know.
Freedom is a new religion--the religion of our time.
Freedom is not caprice, but room to enlarge.
Freedom is only granted us that obedience may be more perfect.
Freedom is only in the land of dreams, and the
beautiful only blooms in song.
Freedom is the eternal youth of nations.
Freedom's sun cannot set so long as smiths hammer iron.
Free governments have committed more flagrant acts of tyranny than the most perfect despotic governments which we have ever known.
Free-livers on a small scale, who are prodigal within the compass of a guinea.
Freends are like fiddle-strings; they maunna
be screwed ower tight.
Freethinkers are generally those who never think at all.
Free will I be in thought and in poetry; in action the world hampers us enough.
Freie Kirche im freien Staat
Freilich erfahren wir erst im Alter, was uns in der Tugend begegnete
Frei muss ich denken, sprechen und atmen
Gottes Luft, / Und wer die drei mir raubet, der legt mich in die Gruft
Freits
Frei von Tadel zu sein ist der niedrigste Grad und der höchste, / Denn nur die Ohnmacht führt oder die Grösse dazu
Freiwillige Abhängigkeit ist der schönste Zustand, und wie wäre der möglich ohne Liebe?
Fremde Kinder, wir lieben sie nie so sehr als die eignen; / Irrtum das eigne Kind, ist uns dem Herzen so nah
Fremdes Pferd und eigene Sporen haben bald
den Wind verloren
Freno indorato non megliora il cavallo
Frequent and loud laughter is the characteristic of folly and ill-manners.
Fresh as a bridegroom, and his chin, new reap'd, / Show'd like a stubble-field at harvest-home; / He was perfuméd like a milliner, / And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held / A pouncet-box, which ever and anon / He gave his nose, and took 't away again.
Fret not over the irretrievable, but ever act as if thy life were just begun.
Fret not thyself because of evil men, neither
be thou envious at the wicked; for there shall be no reward to the evil man; the candle of the wicked shall be put out.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
Freude hat mir Gott gegeben
Freud' muss Leid, Leid muss Freude haben
Freundschaft ist ein Knotenstock auf Reisen, / Lieb' ein Stäbchen zum Spazierengehn
Friar Modest never was prior.
Friend after friend departs; / Who hath not lost a friend? / There is no union here of hearts / That finds not here an end.
Friend, hast thou considered the "rugged, all-nourishing earth," as Sophocles well names her; how she feeds the sparrow on the housetop, much more her darling, man?
Friend, however thou camest by this book, I will assure thee thou wert least in my thoughts when I writ it.
"Friend, I never gave thee any of my jewels!" "No, but you have let me look at them, and that is all the use you can make of them yourself; moreover, you have the trouble of watching them, and that is an employment I do not much desire."
Friends and acquaintances are the surest passports to fortune.
Friends are lost by calling often and calling seldom.
Friends are ourselves.
Friends are rare, for the good reason that men are not common.
Friends are the leaders of the bosom, being more ourselves than we are, and we complement our affections in theirs.
Friends, like mushrooms, spring up in out-of-the-way places.
Friends may meet, / But mountains never greet.
Friends reveal to each other most clearly
exactly that upon which they are silent.
Friends should associate friends in grief and woe.
Friends should be weighed, not told.
Friends show me what I can do; foes teach me what I should do.
Friends, such as we desire, are dreams and fables.
Friends will be much apart. They will respect
more each other's privacy than their communion, for therein is the fulfilment of our high aims and the conclusion of our arguments.... The hours my friend devotes to me were snatched from a higher society.

Friendship can originate and acquire permanence (Neigung), 
 (gleichen Schri

Friendship can originate and acquire permanence (Neigung),  to friendship. True, active, productive friendship consists in this, that we keep the same approves of my aims, as I of his, and that whatever may be the difference otherwise between our ways of thinking and living.
Friendship canna stand a' on ae side.
Friendship, in the old heroic sense of that term, no longer exists; except in the cases of kindred or other legal affinity, it is in reality no longer expected or recognised as a virtue among men.
Friendship is a plant which one must water often.
Friendship is a vase, which, when it is flawed
by heat, or violence, or accident, may as well be broken at once; it never can be trusted after.
Friendship is but a name.
Friendship is communion.
Friendship is constant in all other things, / Save in the office and affairs of love; / Therefore, all hearts in love use their own tongues; / Let every eye negotiate for itself, / And trust no agent.
Friendship is infinitely better than kindness.
Friendship is like a debt of honour; the
moment it is talked of, it loses its real name, and assumes the more ungrateful form of obligation.
Friendship is love with understanding.
Friendship is love without its flowers or veil.
Friendship is love without its wings.
Friendship is no plant of hasty growth.
Friendship is one soul in two bodies.
Friendship is stronger than kindred.
Friendship is the greatest bond in the world.
Friendship is the ideal; friends are the reality; the reality always remains far apart from the ideal.
Friendship is the marriage of the soul.
Friendship is the shadow of the evening,
which strengthens with the setting sun of life.
Friendship is too pure a pleasure for a mind cankered with ambition or the lust of power and grandeur.
Friendship, like love, is but a name, / Unless to one you stint the flame.
Friendship, like love, is self-forgetful.
Friendship, like the immortality of the soul, is too good to be believed.
Friendship made in a moment is of no moment.
Friendship often ends in love; but love in friendship--never.
Friendship should be surrounded with ceremonies and respects, and not crushed into corners.
Friendship, unlike love, which is weakened by fruition, grows up, thrives, and increases by enjoyment; and being of itself spiritual, the soul is reformed by the habit of it.
Friendships are discovered rather than made.
Friendship's as it's kept.
Friendship's full of dregs.
Friendships that are disproportioned ever terminate in disgust.
Friendship's the privilege / Of private men.
Friendship's the wine of life; but friendship new is neither strong nor pure.
Friendships which are born in misfortune are
more firm and lasting than those which are formed in happiness.
Frigidam aquam effundere
Frisch gewagt ist halb gewonnen
From a bad paymaster get what you can.
From a closed door the devil turns away.
From camp to camp, through the foul womb of night, / The hum of either army stilly sounds, / That the fix'd sentinels almost receive / The secret whispers of each other's watch; / Fire answers fire, and through their paly flames / Each battle sees the other's umber'd face; / Steed threatens steed in high and boastful neighs, / Piercing the night's dull ear, and from the tents / The armourers, accomplishing the knights, / With busy hammers closing rivets up, / Give dreadful note of preparation.
From every moral death there is a new birth; / in this wondrous course of his, man may indeed linger, but cannot retrograde or stand still.
From every spot on earth we are equally near heaven and the infinite.
From grave to gay, from lively to severe.
From great folks great favours are to be
expected.
From hand to mouth will never make a worthy man.
From hearing comes wisdom, from speaking repentance.
From Helicon's harmonious springs / A thousand rills their mazy progress take.
From his cradle / He was a scholar, and a ripe and good one; / Exceeding wise, fair-spoken, and persuading; / Lofty and sour to them that loved him not, / But to those men who sought him, sweet as summer; / And to add greater honours to his age / Than man could give; he died fearing God.
From ignorance our comfort flows; / The only
wretched are the wise.
From kings and priests and statesmen war arose, / Whose safety is man's deep embittered woe, / Whose grandeur his debasement.
From labour health, from health contentment springs.
From lowest place where virtuous things proceed, / The place is dignified by the doer's deed.
From obedience and submission spring all other virtues, as all sin does from self-opinion.
From our ancestors come our names, from our
virtues our honours.
From out the throng and stress of lies, / From out the painful noise of sighs, / One voice of comfort seems to rise, / It is the meaner part that dies.
From pillar to post
From saying "No," however cleverly, no good can come.
From seeming evil still educing good.
From servants hasting to be gods.
From small beginnings come great things.
From stratagem to stratagem we run, / And he knows most who latest is undone; / An honest man will take a knave's advice, / But idiots only will be cozened twice.
From the beginning and to the end of time, Love reads without letters and counts without arithmetic.
From the deepest desire oftentimes ensues the deadliest hate.
From thee, great God, we spring, to thee we
tend, / Path, motive, guide, original and end.
"From the height of these pyramids forty centuries look down on you."
From the lowest depth there is a path to the loftiest height.
From the low prayer of want and plaint of woe / O never, never turn away thine ear! / Forlorn is this bleak wilderness below, / Ah! what were man should heaven refuse to hear!
From the same flower the bee extracts honey and the wasp gall.
From the summit of power men no longer turn
their eyes upward, but begin to look about them.
From the sum / Of duty, blooms sweeter and more divine / The fair ideal of the race, than comes / From glittering gains of learning.
From time to time in history men are born a whole age too soon.
From within or from behind, a light shines through us upon things, and makes us aware that we are nothing, but the light is all.
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive: / They sparkle still the right Promethean fire; / They are the books, the arts, the academes, / That show, contain, and nourish all the world; / Else none at all in aught proves excellent.
From yon blue heaven above us bent, / The
grand old gardener and his wife / Smile at the claims of long descent.
Fromm, Klug, Weis, und Mild, gehört in des Adels Schild
Fromme Leute wohnen weit auseinander
Frömmigkeit ist kein Zweck, sondern ein Mittel, um durch die reinste Gemüthsruhe zur höchsten Cultur zu gelangen
Fronti nulla fides
Frost and fraud both end in foul.
Frost is God's plough.
Fructu non foliis arborem æstima
Frugality, and even avarice, in the lower orders of mankind are true ambition. These afford the only ladder for the poor to rise to preferment.
Frugality is an estate.
Frugality is founded on the principle that all
riches have limits.
Frugality is good, if liberality be joined with it.
Frugality may be termed the daughter of prudence, the sister of temperance, and the parent of liberty.
Fruges consumere nati
Frühe Hochzeit, lange Liebe
Fruit is seed.
Frustra fit per plura, quod fieri potest per pauciora
Frustra Herculi
Frustra laborat qui omnibus placere studet
Frustra retinacula tendens / Fertur equis auriga, neque audit currus habenas
Frustra vitium vitaveris illud, / Si te alio pravus detorseris
Fugam fecit
Fuge magna; licet sub paupere tecto / Reges
et regum vita præcurrere amicos
Fugere est triumphus
Fugit improbus, ac me / Sub cultro linquit
Fugit irreparabile tempus
Fühlst du dein Herz durch Hass von Menschen weggetrieben--/ Thu' ihnen Gutes! schnell wirst du sie wieder lieben
Fuimus
Fuimus Troes, fuit Ilium, et ingens / Gloria Teucrorum
Fuit hæc sapientia quondam, / Publica privatis secernere, sacra profanis, / Concubitu prohibere vago, dare jura maritis, / Oppida moliri, leges incidere ligno
Fuit Ilium
Fules are aye fond o' flittin'.
Fulgente trahit constrictos gloria curru, / Non
minus ignotos generosis
Full little knowest thou that hast not tried / What hell it is in suing long to bide; / To lose good days that might be better spent, / To waste long nights in pensive discontent.
Full many a day for ever is lost / By delaying its work till to-morrow; / The minutes of sloth have often cost / Long years of bootless sorrow.
Full many a gem of purest ray serene / The dark unfathom'd caves of ocean bear; / Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, / And waste its sweetness on the desert air.
Full many a stoic eye and aspect stern / Masks hearts where grief has little left to learn; / And many a withering thought lies hid, not lost, / In smiles that least befit who wears them most.
Full of sound and fury, / Signifying nothing.
Full oft have letters caused the writers / To curse the day they were inditers.
Full of wise saws and modern instances.
Full seldom doth a man repent, or use / Both grace and will to pick the vicious quitch / Of blood and custom wholly out of him, / And make all clean, and plant himself afresh.
Full twenty times was Peter fear'd / For once that Peter was respected.
Full vessels give the least sound.
Full wise is he that can himselven knowe.
Fully to possess and rule an object, one must first study it for its own sake.
Fumos vendere
Fumum, et opes, strepitumque Romæ
Functus officio
Fundamentum est justitiæ fides
Fungar vice cotis, acutum / Reddere quæ ferrum valet, exsors ipsa secandi
Fürchterlich / Ist einer der nichts zu verlieren hat
Für den Dialektiker ist die Welt ein Begriff, für den Schöngeist ein Bild, für den Schwärmer ein Traum, für den Forscher Wahrheit
Für eine Nation ist nur das gut was aus ihrem
eignen Kern und ihrem eignen allgemeinen Bedürfniss hervorgegangen, ohne Nachäffung einer andern
Für einen Leichnam bin ich nicht zu Haus; / Mir geht es wie der Katze mit der Maus
Für ewig ist ja nicht gestorben, was man für diese Welt begräbt
Für Gerechte giebt es keine Gesetze
Furiosus absentis loco est
Furiosus furore suo punitur
Furor arma ministrat
Furor fit læsa sæpius patientia
Furor iraque mentem præcipitant
Furor loquendi
Furor poëticus
Furor scribendi
Für seinen König muss das Volk sich opfern, /
Das ist das Schicksal und das Gesetz der Welt
Fürst Bismarck glaubt uns zu haben, und wir haben ihn
Fürsten haben lange Hände und viele Ohren
Further I will not flatter you, / That all I see in you is worthy love, / Than this; that nothing do I see in you / That should merit hate.
Fury wasteth, as patience lasteth.
Futurity is impregnable to mortal kin; no
prayer pierces through heaven's adamantine walls.
Futurity is the great concern of mankind.
Futurity still shortens, and time present sucks in time to come.
Fuyez les procès sur toutes les choses, la conscience s'y intéresse, la santé s'y altère, les biens s'y dissipent
Gäb es keine Narren, so gäb es keine Weisen
Gaieté de cœur
Gaiety is often the reckless ripple over depths of despair.
Gaiety is the soul's health; sadness is its poison.
Gaiety overpowers weak spirits; good-humour recreates and revives them.
Gaiety pleases more when we are assured that it does not cover carelessness.
Gain at the expense of reputation should be
called loss.
'Gainst the tooth of time / And rasure of oblivion.
Galea spes salutis
Galeatum sero duelli pœnitet
Gallantry thrives most in a court atmosphere.
Gallicè
Gallus in sterquilinio suo plurimum potest
Gambling is the child of avarice, but the parent of prodigality.
Gambling with cards, or dice, or stocks, is all one thing; it is getting money without giving an equivalent for it.
Game is a civil gunpowder, in peace / Blowing up houses with their whole increase.
Games of chance are traps to catch school-boy novices and gaping country squires, who begin with a guinea and end with a mortgage.
Gaming finds a man a cully and leaves him a knave.

Gaming has been resorted to by the affluent as may succeed for a moment, but, like other stimuli, it produces indirect debility.
Gaming is the destruction of all decorum; the prince forgets at it his dignity, and the lady her modesty.
Gammel Mands Sagn er sielden usand
Gang to bed wi' the lamb and rise wi' the laverock
Garçon
Garde à cheval
Garde à pied
Garde à vous
Garde-chasse
Garde du corps
Garde-feu
Garde-fou
Gardez
Gardez bien
Gardez cela pour la bonne bouche
Gardez la foi
Garments that have once a rent in them are
subject to be torn on every nail, and glasses that are once cracked are soon broken; such is a good man's name once tainted with just reproach.
Garrit aniles / Ex re fabellas
Gar Vieles lernt man, um es wieder zu vergessen; / Um an den Ziel zu stehen, muss man die Bahn durchmessen
Gâteau et mauvaise coutume se doivent rompre
Gâter une chandelle pour trouver une épingle
Gather gear by every wile that's justified by
honour; / Not for to hide it in a hedge, nor for a train attendant; / But for the glorious privilege of being independent.
Gather the rosebuds while ye may, / Old Time is still a-flying, / And this same flower that smiles to-day, / To-morrow will be dying.
Gathering gear
Gathering her brows like gathering storm, / Nursing her wrath to keep it warm.
Gato maullador nunca buen cazador
Gaude, Maria Virgo
Gaudeamus
Gaudent prænomine molles / Auriculæ
Gaudet equis, canibusque, et aprici gramine
campi
Gaudet tentamine virtus
Gaudetque viam fecisse ruina
Gave / His body to that pleasant country's earth, / And his pure soul unto his captain Christ, / Under whose colours he had fought so long.
Gay hope is theirs by fancy fed, / Less pleasing when possest; / The tear forgot as soon as shed, / The sunshine of the breast.
Gear is easier gained than guided.
Geben ist Sache des Reichen
Gebrade duijven vliegen niet door de lucht
Gebratene Tauben, die einem im Maul fliegen?
Gebraucht der Zeit, sie geht so schnell von hinnen, / Doch Ordnung lehrt euch Zeit gewinnen
Gebt ihr ein Stück, so gebt es gleich in Stücken
Gedanken sind zollfrei, aber nicht höllenfrei
Gedenke zu leben
Gedichte sind gemalde Fensterscheiben
Gedult gaat boven geleerdheid
Gedwongen liefde vergaat haast
Geese are plucked as long as they have any feathers.
Gefährlich ist's, den Leu zu wecken, / Verderblich ist des Tigers Zahn; / Jedoch der schrecklichste der Schrecken, / Das ist der Mensch in seinem Wahn
Gefährlich ist's ein Mordgewehr zu tragen / Und auf den Schützen springt der Pfeil zurück
Gefährlich ist's mit Geistern sich gesellen
Gefährte munter kürzt die Meilen
Gefühl ist alles; / Name ist Schall und Rauch / Umnebelnd Himmelsglut
Gegen grosse Vorzüge eines andern giebt es kein Rettungsmittel als die Liebe
Gegner glauben uns widerlegen, wenn sie ihre Meinung wieder holen und auf die unsrige nicht achten
Geheimnissvoll am lichten Tag / Lässt sich Natur des Schleiers nicht berauben, / Und was sie deinem Geist nicht offenbaren mag, / Das zwingst du ihr nicht ab mit Hebeln und mit Schrauben
Geld beheert de wereld.
Geld ist der Mann
Geld im Beutel vertreibt die Schwermuth
Gelegenheit macht den Dieb
Gelehrte Dummkopf
Gemeen goed, geen goed
Gemsen steigen hoch und werden doch gefangen
General abstract truth is the most precious of all blessings; without it man is blind; it is the eye of reason.
General infidelity is the hardest soil which the propagators of a new religion can have to work upon.
General suffering is the fruit of general misbehaviour,
general dishonesty.
General truths are seldom applied to particular occasions.
Generally all warlike people are a little idle, and love danger better than travail.
Generally speaking, an author's style is a faithful copy of his mind. If you would write a lucid style, let there first be light in your own mind; and if you would write a grand style, you ought to have a grand character.
Generations are as the days of toilsome mankind; death and birth are the vesper and the matin bells that summon mankind to sleep, and to rise refreshed for new advancement.
Generosity during life is a very different thing
from generosity in the hour of death; one proceeds from genuine liberality and benevolence, the other from pride or fear.
Generosity is catching: and if so many escape it, it is somewhat for the same reason that countrymen escape the small-pox--because they meet with no one to give it to them.
Generosity is the flower of justice.
Generosity is the part of the soul raised above the vulgar.
Generosity should never exceed ability.
Generosity, wrong placed, becomes a vice.
A princely mind will undo a private family.
Generous souls are still most subject to credulity.
Geniesse, wenn du kannst, und leide, wenn du musst, / Vergiss den Schmerz, erfrische das Vergnügen
Genius and virtue, like diamonds, are best plain set.
Genius always gives its best at first, prudence at last.
Genius begins great works, labour alone finishes
them.
Genius believes its faintest presentiment against the testimony of all history, for it knows that facts are not ultimates, but that a state of mind is the ancestor of everything.
Genius borrows nobly.
Genius can never despise labour.
Genius cannot escape the taint of its time more than a child the influence of its begetting.
Genius can only breathe freely in an atmosphere
of freedom.
Genius counts all its miracles poor and short.
Genius does not need a special language; it newly uses whatever tongue it finds.
Genius does what it must, and talent does what it can.
Genius easily hews out its figure from the block, but the sleepless chisel gives it life.
Genius, even as it is the greatest good, is the
greatest harm.
Genius ever stands with nature in solemn union, and what the one foretells the other will fulfil.
Genius finds its own road and carries its own lamp.
Genius grafted on womanhood is like to overgrow it and break its stem.
Genius has privileges of its own; it selects an orbit for itself; and be this never so eccentric, if it is indeed a celestial orbit, we mere star-gazers must at last compose ourselves, must cease to cavil at it, and begin to observe it and calculate its laws.
Genius in poverty is never feared, because
Nature, though liberal in her gifts in one instance, is forgetful in another.
Genius invents fine manners, which the baron and the baroness copy very fast, and, by the advantage of a palace, better the instruction. They stereotype the lesson they have learned into a mode.
Genius is always ascetic, and piety and love.
Genius is always a surprise, but it is born with great advantages when the stock from which it springs has been long under cultivation.
Genius is always consistent when most audacious.
Genius is always impatient of its harness; its
wild blood makes it hard to train.
Genius is always more suggestive than expressive.
Genius is always sufficiently the enemy of genius by over-influence.
Genius is a nervous disease.
Genius is ever a secret to itself.
Genius is ever the greatest mystery to itself.
Genius is inconsiderate, self-relying, and, like unconscious beauty, without any intention to please.
Genius is intensity of life; an overflowing vitality which floods and fertilises a continent or a hemisphere of being; which makes a nature many-sided and whole, while most men remain partial and fragmentary.
Genius is lonely without the surrounding presence of a people to inspire it.
Genius is mainly an affair of energy.
Genius is not a single power, but a combination
of great powers. It reasons, but it is not reasoning; it judges, but it is not judgment; imagines, but it is not imagination; it feels deeply and fiercely, but it is not passion. It is neither, because it is all.
Genius is nothing but a great capacity for patience.
Genius is nothing but labour and diligence.
Genius is nothing more than our common faculties refined to a greater intensity.
Genius is nothing more than the effort of the idea to assume a definite form.
Genius is nourished from within and without.
Genius is only as rich as it is generous.
Genius is religious.
Genius is that in whose power a man is.
Genius is that power of man which by its deeds and actions gives laws and rules; and it does not, as used to be thought, manifest itself only by over-stepping existing laws, breaking established rules, and declaring itself above all restraint.
Genius is the gold in the mine; talent is the
miner who works and brings it out.
Genius is the power of carrying the feelings of childhood into the powers of manhood.
Genius is the transcendent capacity of taking trouble first of all.
Genius is the very eye of intellect and the wing of thought; it is always in advance of its time, and is the pioneer for the generation which it precedes.
Genius is to other gifts what the carbuncle is to the precious stones. It sends forth its own light, whereas other stones only reflect borrowed light.
Genius loci
Genius makes its observations in shorthand; talent writes them out at length.
Genius may at times want the spur, but it stands as often in need of the curb.
Genius melts many ages into one.... A work
of genius is but the newspaper of a century, or perchance of a hundred centuries.
Genius must be born, and never can be taught.
Genius of a kind is necessary to make a fortune, and especially a large one.
Genius only commands recognition when it has created the taste which is to appreciate it.
Genius only leaves behind it the monuments of its strength.
Genius should be the child of genius, and every
child should be inspired.
Genius, the Pythian of the beautiful, leaves its large truths a riddle to the dull.
Genius unexerted is no more genius than a bushel of acorns is a forest of oaks.
Genius will reconcile men to much.
Genius works in sport, and goodness smiles to the last.
Gens d'armes
Gens de bureau
Gens de condition
Gens d'église
Gens de guerre
Gens de langues
Gens de lettres
Gens de lois
Gens de même famille
Gens de peu
Gens togata
Gentility is nothing else but ancient riches.
Gentility without ability is waur
Gentle passions brighten the horizon of our existence, move without wearying, warm without consuming, and are the badges of true strength.
Gentle words, quiet words, are, after all, the most powerful words. They are more convincing, more compelling, more prevailing.
Gentleman, in its primal, literal, and perpetual
meaning, is a man of pure race.
Gentleman is a term which does not apply to any station, but to the mind and the feelings in every station.
Gentlemanliness is just another word for intense humanity.
Gentlemen have to learn that it is no part of their duty or privilege to live on other people's toil; that there is no degradation in the hardest manual or the humblest servile labour, when it is honest.
"Gentlemen of the jury, you will now consider your verdict."
Gentleness corrects whatever is offensive in
our manners.
Gentleness! more powerful than Hercules.
Gentleness, when it weds with manhood, makes a man.
Gently comes the world to those / That are cast in gentle mould.
Gently didst thou ramble round the little circle of thy pleasures, jostling no creature in thy way: for each one's sorrows thou hadst a tear; for each man's need thou hadst a shilling.
Gently, gently touch a nettle, / And it stings
you for your pains; / Grasp it like a man of mettle, / And it soft as silk remains.
Genug ist über einer Sackvoll
Genuine morality depends on no religion, though every one sanctions it and thereby guarantees to it its support.
Genuine religion is matter of feeling rather than matter of opinion.
Genuine simplicity of heart is a healing and cementing principle.
Genus et proavos et quæ non fecimus ipsi, /
Vix ea nostra voco
Genus humanum superavit
Genus immortale manet, multosque per annos / Stat fortuna domus, et avi numerantur avorum
Genus irritabile vatum
Gerechtigkeit ist mehr die männliche, Menschenliebe
mehr die weibliche Tugend
Geredt ist geredt, man kann es mit keinem Schwamme abwischen
Germanicè
Gescheite Leute sind immer das beste Konversationslexikon
Geschichte ist eigentlich nichts anderes, als eine Satire auf die Menschheit
Geschrei macht den Wolf grösser als er ist
Gesellschaft ist die Grossmutter der Menschheit durch ihre Töchter, die Erfindungen
Gesetz ist mächtig, mächtiger ist die Noth
Gesetzlose Gewalt ist die furchbarste Schwäche
Gespenster sind für solche Leute nur / Die sehn sie wollen
Get a good name and go to sleep.
Get money, honestly if you can, but get money.
Get once into the secret of any Christian act, and you get practically into the secret of Christianity itself.
Get on the crupper of a good stout hypothesis,
and you may ride round the world.
Get place and wealth, if possible, with grace; / If not, by any means get wealth and place.
Get spindle and distaff ready, and God will send the flax.
Get thee to a nunnery!
Get to live; / Then live and use it; else it is not true / That thou hast gotten.
Get what ye can and keep what ye hae.
Get your enemies to read your works in order to mend them, for your friend is so much your second self that he will judge too like you.
Geteilte Freud' ist doppelt Freude
Gewalt ist die beste Beredsamkeit
Gewinnen ist leichter als Erhalten
Gewöhne dich, da stets der Tod dir dräut, /
Dankbar zu nehmen, was das Leben beut
Gewöhnlich glaubt Mensch, wenn er nur Worte hört, / Es müsse sich dabei doch auch was denken lassen
Ghosts! There are nigh a thousand million walking the earth openly at noontide; some half-hundred have vanished from it, some half-hundred have arisen in it, ere thy watch ticks once.
Giant Antæus in the fable acquired new strength every time he touched the earth; so some brave minds gain fresh energy from that which depresses and crushes others.
Gibier de potence
Gie a bairn his will and a whelp his fill, an'
neither will do well.
Gie a beggar a bed, and he'll pay you with a louse.
Gie him tow enough and he'll hang himsel'
Gie me a canny hour at e'en, / My arms about my dearie, O, / An' warl'ly cares an' warl'ly men / May a' gang tapsalteerie, O.
Gie me ae spark o' Nature's fire! / That's a' the learning I desire; / Then though I drudge through dub and mire, / At pleugh or cart, / My Muse, though hamely in attire, / May touch the heart.
Gie me a peck o' oaten strae, / An' sell your wind
for siller.
Gie the deil his due, an' ye'll gang till him.
Gie the greedy dog a muckle bane.
Gie wealth to some be-ledger'd cit, / In cent. per cent.; / But gie me real, sterling wit, / And I'm content.
Gie your heart to God and your awms
to the poor.
Gie your tongue mair holidays than your head.
Giebt es Krieg, so macht der Teufel die Hölle weiter
Giebt's schönre Pflichten für ein edles Herz / Als ein Verteidiger der Unschuld sein, / Das Recht der unterdrückten zu beschirmen?
Gierigheid is niet verzadigd voor zij den mond vol aarde heeft
Giff-gaff maks gude friends
Gift of prophecy has been wisely denied to
man. Did a man foresee his life, and not merely hope it and grope it, and so by necessity and free-will make and fabricate it into a reality, he were no man, but some other kind of creature, superhuman or subterhuman.
Gifts are as gold that adorns the temple; grace is like the temple that sanctifies the gold.
Gifts are often losses.
Gifts come from on high in their own peculiar forms.
Gifts from the hand are silver and gold, but the heart gives that which neither silver nor gold can buy.
Gifts make their way through stone walls.
Gifts weigh like mountains on a sensitive heart.
Gigni pariter cum corpore, et una / Crescere sentimus pariterque senescere mentem
Gin
Giovine santo, diavolo vecchio
Gird your hearts with silent fortitude, / Suffering
yet hoping all things.
Girls we love for what they are; young men for what they promise to be.
Give a boy address and accomplishments, and you give him the mastery of palaces and fortunes where he goes.
Give a dog an ill name and hang him.
Give a hint to a man of sense and consider the thing done.
Give alms, that thy children may not ask
them.
Give a man luck and throw him into the sea.
Give ample room and verge enough.
Give an ass oats, and it runs after thistles.
Give, and it shall be given to you.
Give and spend, / And God will send.
Give and take.
Give a rogue rope enough, and he will hang himself.
Give, but, if possible, spare the poor man the shame of begging.
Give every flying minute / Something to keep in store.
Give every man his due.
Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice; /
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Give from below what ye get from above, / Light for the heaven-light, love for its love, / A holy soul for the Holy Dove.
Give God the margin of eternity to justify Himself in.
Give him an inch and he'll take an ell.
Give him a present! give him a halter.
Give me again my hollow tree, / A crust of
bread, and liberty.
Give me a look, give me a face, / That makes simplicity a grace, / Robes loosely flowing, hair as free; / Such sweet neglect more taketh me, / Than all the adulteries of art; / They strike mine eyes, but not my heart.
Give me but / Something whereunto I may bind my heart; / Something to love, to rest upon, to clasp / Affection's tendrils round.
Give me health and a day, and I will make the pomp of emperors ridiculous.
Give me insight into to-day, and you may have the antique and future worlds.... This idea has inspired the genius of Goldsmith, Burns, Cowper, and, in a newer time, of Goethe, Wordsworth, and Carlyle. Their writing is blood-warm.
Give me my Romeo: and, when he shall die, /
Take him and cut him out in little stars, / And he will make the face of heaven so fine / That all the world will be in love with night, / And pay no homage to the garish sun.
Give me that man / Who is not passion's slave, and I will wear him / In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of hearts.
Give me the avow'd, th' erect, the manly foe, / Bold I can meet, perhaps may turn, his blow; / But of all plagues, good Heaven, thy wrath can send, / Save, save, oh! save me from the candid friend.
Give me the eloquent cheek, where blushes burn and die.
Give me the liberty to know, to think, to believe, and to utter freely, according to conscience, above all other liberties.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked
for it.
Give not that which is holy to the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine.
Give only so much to one that you may have to give to another.
Give orders, but no more, and nothing will be done.
Give pleasure to the few; to please many is vain.
Give ruffles to a man who wants a shirt.
Give sorrow words; the grief that does not speak, / Whispers the o'erfraught heart, and bids it break.
Give the devil his due.
Give the devil rope enough and he will hang himself.
Give thy need, thine honour, and thy friend his due.
Give thy thoughts no tongue, / Nor any unproportioned
thought his act. / Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar. / The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, / Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel; / But do not dull thy palm with entertainment / Of each new-hatch'd unfledged comrade.
Give to a gracious message / An host of tongues; but let ill tidings tell / Themselves when they be felt.
Give to him that asketh of thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away.
Give to the masses nothing to do, and they will topple down thrones and cut throats; give them the government here, and they will make pulpits useless, and colleges an impertinence.
Give tribute, but not oblation, to human wisdom.
Give unto me, made lowly wise, / The spirit of
self-sacrifice; / The confidence of reason give; / And in the light of truth thy bondman let me live.
Give us the man who sings at his work! Be his occupation what it may, he will be equal to any of those who follow the same pursuit in silent sullenness. He will do more in the same time; he will do it better; he will persevere longer.
Give way to your betters.
Give you a reason on compulsion? If reasons were as plenty as blackberries, I would give no man a reason upon compulsion.
Give your tongue more holiday than your hands or eyes.
Given a living man, there will be found clothes
for him; he will find himself clothes; but the suit of clothes pretending that it is both clothes and man--
Given a world of knaves, to educe an Honesty from their united action, is a problem that is becoming to all men a palpably hopeless one.
Given the men a people choose, the people itself, in its exact worth and worthlessness, is given.
Gives not the hawthorn bush a sweeter shade / To shepherds, looking on their silly sheep, / Than doth a rich embroider'd canopy / To kings that fear their subjects' treachery.
Giving alms never lessens the purse.
Giving away is the instrument for accumulated
treasures; it is like a bucket for the distribution of the waters deposited in the bowels of a well.
Giving to the poor increaseth a man's store.
Gladiator in arena consilium capit
Glänzendes Elend
Glasses and lasses are brittle ware.
Glaube nur, du hast viel gethan / Wenn dir Geduld gewöhnest an
Glebæ ascriptus
Gleiches Blut, gleiches Gut, und gleiche Jahre machen die besten Heirathspaare
Gleich sei keiner dem andern; doch gleich sei jeder dem Höchsten. Wie das zu machen? Es sei jeder vollendet in sich
Gleich und Gleich gesellt sich gern, sprach der Teufel zum Köhler
Gleichheit est immer das festeste Band der Liebe
Gleichheit ist das heilige Gesetz der Menschheit
Gli alberi grandi fanno più ombra che frutto
Gli amici legano la borsa con un filo di ragnatelo
Gli uomini alla moderna, e gli asini all' antica
Gli uomini fanno la roba, e le donne la conservano
Gli uomini hanno gli anni che sentono, e le
donne quelli che mostrano
Gli uomini hanno men rispetto di offendere uno che si facci amare che uno che si facci temere
Gloria in excelsis Deo
Gloria vana florece, y no grana
Gloria virtutis umbra
Gloriæ et famæ jactura facienda est, publicæ
utilitatis causa
Gloriam qui spreverit, veram habet
Glories, like glow-worms, afar-off shine bright, / But looked at near, have neither heat nor light.
Glorious men are the scorn of wise men, the admiration of fools, the idols of parasites, and the slaves of their own vaunts.
Glory and gain the industrious tribe provoke; / And gentle dulness ever loves a joke.
Glory fills the world with virtue, and, like a
beneficent sun, covers the whole earth with flowers and fruits.
Glory grows guilty of detested crimes.
Glory is like a circle in the water, / Which never ceaseth to enlarge itself, / Till, by broad spreading, it disperse to naught.
Glory is safe when it is deserved; not so popularity; the one lasts like mosaic, the other is effaced like a crayon drawing.
Glory is so enchanting that we love whatever we associate with it, even though it be death.
Glory is the fair child of peril.
Glory is the unanimous praise of good men.
Glory long has made the sages smile, / 'Tis something, nothing, words, illusion, wind, / Depending more upon the historian's style / Than on the name a person leaves behind.
Glory relaxes often and debilitates the mind; censure stimulates and contracts--both to an extreme.
Glück auf dem Weg
Glück macht Mut
Glück und Weiber haben die Narren lieb
Glücklich, glücklich nenn' ich den / Dem des Daseins letzte Stunde / Schlägt in seiner Kinder Mitte
Glücklich wer jung in jungen Tagen, / Glücklich wer mit Zeit gestählt, Gelernt des Lebens Ernst zu tragen
Gluttony and drunkenness have two evils attendant on them; they make the carcass smart as well as the pocket.
Gluttony is the source of all our infirmities
and the fountain of all our diseases. As a lamp is choked by a superabundance of oil, a fire extinguished by an excess of fuel, so is the natural health of the body destroyed by intemperate diet.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
Gluttony, where it prevails, is more violent, and certainly more despicable, than avarice itself.
Gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite / The man that mocks at it and sets it light.
Gnats are unnoticed whereso'er they fly, / But eagles gazed upon by every eye.
Go deep enough, there is music everywhere.
Go down the ladder when thou marriest a wife; go up when thou choosest a friend.
Go, miser, go; for lucre sell thy soul; / Truck wares for wares, and trudge from pole to pole. / That men may say, when thou art dead and gone: / "See what a vast estate he left his son!"
Go, poor devil, get thee gone; why should I hurt thee? This world, surely, is wide enough to hold both thee and me.
Go to Jericho and let your beards grow.
Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise.
Go to your bosom; / Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know / That's like my brother's fault; if it confess / A natural guiltiness, such as his is, / Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue / Against my brother's life.
Go where you may, you still find yourself in
a conditional world.
Go whither thou wilt, thou shalt find no rest but in humble subjection to the government of a superior.
Go, wondrous creature, mount where science guides. / Go, measure earth, weigh air, and state the tides; / Instruct the planets in what orbs to run, / Correct old Time, and regulate the sun; / Go, teach Eternal Wisdom how to rule, / Then drop into thyself and be a fool.
Go you and try a democracy in your own house.
Go, you may call it madness, folly; / You shall not chase my gloom away; / There's such a charm in melancholy, / I would not, if I could, be gay.
Gobe-mouches
God alone can properly bind up a bleeding heart.
God alone is true; God alone is great; alone is God.
God answers sharp and sudden on some prayers, / And thrusts the thing we have prayed for in our face, / A gauntlet with a gift in it.
God asks no man whether he will accept life. That is not the choice. You must take it; the only choice is how.
God asks not what, but whence, thy work is:
from the fruit / He turns His eye away, to prove the inmost root.
God assists those who rise early in the morning.
God blesses still the generous thought, / And still the fitting word He speeds, / And truth, at His requiring taught, / He quickens into deeds.
God blesses the seeking, not the finding.
God builds His temple in the heart and on the ruins of churches and religions.
God comes at last, when we think He is
farthest off.
God comes in distress, and distress goes.
God comes to see us without bell.
God comes with leaden feet, but strikes with iron hands.
God created man in his own image.
God deals His wrath by weight, but His
mercy without weight.
God deceiveth thee not.
God defend me from the man of one book.
God desireth to make your burden light to you, for man hath been created weak.
God does not measure men by inches.
God does not pay every week, but He pays at
the end.
God does not require us to live on credit; He pays what we earn as we earn it, good or evil, heaven or hell, according to our choice.
God does not smite with both hands.
God does not weigh criminality in our scales. God's measure is the heart of the offender, a balance so delicate that a tear cast in the other side may make the weight of error kick the beam.
God does with His children as a master does with his pupils; the more hopeful they are, the more work He gives them to do.
God enters by a private door into every individual.
God estimates us not by the position we are in, but by the way in which we fill it.
God gave thy soul brave wings; put not those feathers / Into a bed to sleep out all ill weathers.
God gives all things to industry.
God gives birds their food, but they must fly for it.
God gives every bird its nest, but does not
throw it into the nest.
God gives his angels charge of those who sleep, / But He Himself watches with those who wake.
God gives sleep to the bad, in order that the good may be undisturbed.
God gives strength to bear a great deal, if we only strive ourselves to endure.
God gives the will; necessity gives the law.
God gives us love. Something to love / He
lends us; but when love is grown / To ripeness, that on which it throve / Falls off, and love is left alone.
God giveth speech to all, song to the few.
God grant you fortune, my son, for knowledge avails you little.
God hands gifts to some, whispers them to others.
God hangs the greatest weights on the smallest wires.
God has been pleased to prescribe limits to His
own power, and to work out His ends within these limits.
God has commanded time to console the unhappy.
God has connected the labour which is essential to the bodily sustenance with the pleasures which are healthiest for the heart; and while He made the ground stubborn, He made its herbage fragrant and its blossoms fair.
God has delegated Himself to a million deputies.
God has given a prophet to every people in its own tongue.
God has given nuts to some who have no teeth.
God has given us wit and flavour, and brightness and laughter, and perfumes to enliven the days of man's pilgrimage, and to charm his pained steps over the burning marl.
God has His little children out at nurse in many a home.
God has lent us the earth for our life; it is a great entail.
God has made man to take pleasure in the use
of his eyes, wits, and body; and the foolish creature is continually trying to live without looking at anything, without thinking about anything, and without doing anything.
God has made sunny spots in the heart; why should we exclude the light from them?
God has not said all that thou hast said.
God has sunk souls in dust, that by that means they may burst their way through errors to truth, through faults to virtue, and through sufferings to bliss.
God hath anointed thee to free the oppressed and crush the oppressor.
God hath given to man a short time here upon
earth, and yet upon this short time eternity depends.
God hath given you one face, and you make yourselves another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and you nickname God's creatures, and make your wantonness your ignorance.
God hath many sharp-cutting instruments and rough files for the polishing of His jewels.
God hath yoked to Guilt her pale tormentor, Misery.
God help the children of dependence!
God help the poor, for the rich can help themselves.
God help the rich folk, for the poor can beg.
God help the sheep when the wolf is judge.
God help the teacher, if a man of sensibility and genius, when a booby father presents him with his booby son, and insists on lighting up the rays of science in a fellow's head whose skull is impervious and inaccessible by any other way than a positive fracture with a cudgel.
God helps the strongest.
God helps those who help themselves.
God Himself cannot do without wise men.
God Himself cannot procure good for the wicked.
God is able to do more than man can understand.
God is a circle whose centre is everywhere, and its circumference nowhere.
God is a creditor who has no bad debts.
God is a good worker, but He loves to be helped.
God is alpha and omega in the great world; endeavour to make Him so in the little world.
God is always ready to strengthen those who strive lawfully.
God is a shower to the heart burnt up with grief, a sun to the face deluged with tears.
God is a sure paymaster. He may not pay
at the end of every week or month or year, but He pays in the end.
God is a
stands written than what thou thyself hast inscribed thereon.
God is at once the great original I and Thou.
God is better served in resisting a temptation to evil than in many formal prayers.
God is goodness itself, and whatsoever is good is of Him.
God is glorified, not by our groans, but by our
thanksgivings; and all good thought and good action claim a natural alliance with good cheer.
God is great, and we know Him not; neither can the number of His years be searched out.
God is great in what is the greatest and the smallest.
God is greater than man.
God is His own interpreter.
God is in heaven, and thou upon earth; therefore
let thy words be few.
God is in the generation of the righteous.
God is in the word "ought" and therefore it outweighs all but God.
God is kind to fou
God is light.
God is love.
God is more delighted in adverbs than in nouns
God is, nay, alone is; for with like emphasis we cannot say that anything else is.
God is not a man, that He should lie; neither the son of man, that he should repent: hath He said it, and shall He not do it? or hath He spoken, and shall He not make it good?
God is not found by the tests that detect you an acid or a salt.
God is not so poor in felicities or so niggard in
His bounty that He has not wherewithal to furnish forth two worlds.
God is not to be known by marring His fair works and blotting out the evidence of His influences upon His creatures; not amidst the hurry of crowds and the crash of innovation, but in solitary places, and out of the glowing intelligences which He gave to men of old.
God is on the side of virtue; for whoever dreads punishment suffers it, and whoever deserves it dreads it.
God is patient, because eternal.
God is spirit.
God made all the creatures, and gave them our love and our fear, / To give sign we and they are His children, one family here.
God is the great composer; men are only the performers. Those grand pieces which are played on earth were composed in heaven.
God is the light which, never seen itself, makes all things visible, and clothes itself in colours. Thine eye feels not its ray, but thine heart feels its warmth.
God is the number, the weight, and the measure which makes the world harmonious and eternal.
God is the perfect poet, / Who in His person
acts His own creations.
God is the reason of those who have no reason.
God is where He was.
God is with every great reform that is necessary, and it prospers.
God keep me from my friends; from my enemies I will keep myself.
God knows I'm no the thing I should be, / Nor
am I ev'n the thing I could be; / But twenty times I rather would be / An atheist clean, / Than under Gospel colours hid be, / Just for a screen.
God Konge er bedre end gammel Lov
God loveth a cheerful giver.
God made him, and therefore let him pass for a man.
God made man to go by motives, and he will not go without them, any more than a boat without steam or a balloon without gas.
God made man upright, but they have sought
out many inventions.
God made me one man; love makes me no more / Till labour come, and make my weakness score.
God made the country; man made the town.
God made the flowers to beautify / The earth and cheer man's careful mood; / And he is happiest who hath power / To gather wisdom from a flower, / And wake his heart in every hour / To pleasant gratitude.
God made us, and we admire ourselves.
God manifests Himself to men in all wise,
good, humble, generous, great, and magnanimous souls.
God may consent, but only for a time.
God moves in a mysterious way / His wonders to perform; / He plants His footsteps in the sea, / And rides upon the storm.
God must needs laugh outright, could such a thing be, to see His wondrous manikins here below.
God narrows Himself to come near man, and man narrows himself to come near God.
God never forsakes His own.
God never imposes a duty without giving the time to do it.
God never made His work for man to mend.
God never meant that man should scale the heavens / By strides of human wisdom.... He commands us in His Word / To seek Him rather where His mercy shines.
God never pardons; the laws of the universe are irrevocable. God always pardons; sense of condemnation is but another word for penitence, and penitence is already new life.
God never sends mouths but He sends meat.
God never shuts one door but He opens another.
God offers to every man his choice between truth and repose.
God often visits us, but most of the time we are not at home.
God only opened His hand to give flight to a thought that He had held imprisoned from eternity.
God pardons like a mother, who kisses the
offence into everlasting forgetfulness.
God permits, but not for ever.
God said, Let there be light; and there was light.
God save the fools, and don't let them run out; for, without them, wise men couldn't get a living.
God save the mark.
God send us some siller, for they're little
thought o' that want it.
God send you mair sense and me mair siller.
God sendeth and giveth both mouth and the meat.
God sends meat and the devil sends cooks.
God sends nothing but what can be borne.
God should be the object of all our desires,
the end of all our actions, the principle of all our affections, and the governing power of our whole souls.
God, sir, he gart kings ken that there was a lith in their neck.
God stays long, but strikes at last.
God taketh an account of all things.
God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
God the first garden made, and the first city
Cain.
God, through the voice of Nature, calls the mass of men to be happy; He calls a few among them to the grander task of being severely but serenely sad.
God trusts every one with the care of his own soul.
God will accept your first attempt, not as a perfect work, but as a beginning.
God will not make Himself manifest to cowards.
God will punish him who sees and him who is
seen.
God, when He makes the prophet, does not unmake the man.
God works in moments.
God writes the gospel not in the Bible alone, but on trees and flowers, and clouds and stars.
God's commandments are the iron door into Himself. To keep them is to have it opened, and His great heart of love revealed.
God's creature is one. He makes man, not men. His true creature is unitary and infinite, revealing himself indeed in every finite form, but compromised by none.
God's free mercy streameth / Over all the
world, / And His banner gleameth, / Everywhere unfurled.
God's goodness is the measure of His providence.
God's help is nearer than the door.
God's in His heaven: / All's right with the world!
God's justice, tardy though it prove perchance, / Rests never on the track till it reach / Delinquency.
God's men are better than the devil's men, and
they ought to act as though they thought they were.
God's mill grinds slow but sure.
God's mills grind slow, but they grind woe.
God's providence is on the side of clear heads.
God's sovereignty is not in His right hand or His intellect, but His love.
Gods water over Gods akker laten loopen
God's way of making worlds is to make them make themselves.
Godfrey sent the thief that stole the cash away, / And punished him that put it in his way.
"Godlike men love lightning;" godless men love it not; shriek murder when they see it, shutting their eyes, and hastily putting on smoked spectacles.
Godliness is profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come.
Godliness with contentment is great gain.
Godly souls have often interdicted the gratifications of the flesh in order to help their spirits in the Godward direction.
Godt Haandværk har en gylden Grund
Goed verloren, niet verloren; moed verloren, veel verloren; eer verloren, meer verloren; ziel verloren, al verloren
Goethe's devil is a cultivated personage and acquainted with the modern sciences; sneers at witchcraft and the black art even while employing them, and doubts most things, nay, half disbelieves even his own existence.
Going by railroad I do not consider as travelling
at all; it is merely "being sent" to a place, and very little different from becoming a parcel.
Going to ruin is silent work.
Gold and diamonds are not riches.
Gold beheert de wereld
Gold does not satisfy love; it must be paid in its own coin.
Gold, father of flatterers, of pain and care
begot, / A fear it is to have thee, and a pain to have thee not.
Gold glitters most when virtue shines no more.
Gold has wings which carry everywhere except to heaven.
Gold is a wonderful clearer of the understanding; it dissipates every doubt and scruple in an instant, accommodates itself to the meanest capacities, silences the loud and clamorous, and brings over the most obstinate and inflexible.
Gold is Cæsar's treasure, man is God's; thy gold hath Cæsar's image, and thou hast God's.
Gold is the fool's curtain, which hides all his
defects from the world.
Gold is the sovereign of all sovereigns.
Gold is tried in the fire, friendship in need.
Gold liegt tief im Berge, aber Koth am Wege
Gold, like the sun, which melts wax and hardens clay, expands great souls and contracts bad hearts.
Gold that is put to use more gold begets.
Gold thou may'st safely touch; but if it stick / Unto thy hands, it woundeth to the quick.
Gold, worse poison to men's souls, / Doing more murder in this loathsome world, / Than these poor compounds that thou may'st not sell.
Gold's worth is gold.
Golden chains are heavy, and love is best!
Golden lads and girls all must, / As chimney-sweepers,
come to dust.
Gone for ever is virtue, once so prevalent in the state, when men deem a mischievous citizen worse than its bitterest enemy, and punish him with severer penalties.
Gone is gone; no Jew will lend upon it.
Good actions done in secret are the most worthy of honour.
Good actions give strength to ourselves and inspire good actions in others.
Good advice can be given, a good name cannot
be given.
Good advice / Is beyond all price.
Good advice may be communicated, but not good manners.
Good ale needs no wisp
Good and bad men are less so than they seem.
Good and evil are names that signify our appetites and aversions.
Good and evil will grow up in this world together; and they who complain in peace of the insolence of the populace must remember that their insolence in peace is bravery in war.
Good and quickly seldom meet.
Good as is discourse, silence is better, and shames it.
Good bees never turn drones.
Good books, like good friends, are few and chosen, the more select the more enjoyable.
Good bread needs baking.
Good-breeding carries along with it a dignity that is respected by the most petulant.
Good-breeding differs, if at all, from high-breeding, only as it gracefully remembers the rights of others, rather than gracefully insists on its own.
Good-breeding is benevolence in trifles, or the
preference of others to ourselves in the little daily occurrences of life.
Good-breeding is surface Christianity.
Good-breeding is the result of much good sense, some good nature, and a little self-denial for the sake of others.
Good-breeding shows itself most where to an ordinary eye it appears least.
Good-bye, proud world! I'm going home; Thou art not my friend, and I'm not thine.
Good company and good discourse are the
very sinews of virtue.
Good company upon the road is the shortest cut.
Good counsel is no better than bad counsel, if it is not taken in time.
Good counsel rejected returns to enrich the giver's bosom.
Good counsels observed are chains to grace.
Good counsel tendered to fools rather provokes
than satisfies them. A draught of milk to serpents only increases their venom.
Good counsel without good fortune is a windmill without wind.
Good counsellors lack no clients.
Good courage breaks ill-luck.
Good deeds in this life are coals raked up in embers to make a fire next day.
Good discourse sinks differences and seeks
agreements.
Good digestion wait on appetite, / And health on both.
Good example always brings forth good fruits.
Good example is half a sermon.
Good fortune is the offspring of our endeavours, although there be nothing sweeter than ease.
Good gear goes in sma' book
Good-humour and generosity carry the day with the popular heart all the world over.
Good-humour may be said to be one of the very best articles of dress one can wear in society.
Good hunters track closely.
Good husbandry is good divinity.
Good is a good doctor, but Bad is sometimes
better.
Good is best when soonest wrought, / Lingering labours come to nought.
Good is good, but better carrieth it.
Good is never a something into which a man can be borne, but always a something born of the man, which he himself carries, and which does not carry him.
Good is not got without grief.
Good is the delay that makes sure.
Good judges are as rare as good authors.
Good laws often proceed from bad manners.
Good leading makes good following.
Good luck comes by cuffing.
Good luck is the willing handmaid of upright,
energetic character, and conscientious observance of duty.
Good luck lies in odd numbers.
Good management is better than a good income.
Good manners are made up of petty sacrifices.
Good manners are part of good morals.
Good manners give integrity a bleeze, / When
native virtues join the arts to please.
Good manners is the art of making those people easy with whom we converse. Whoever makes the fewest persons uneasy is the best bred in the company.
Good maxims are the germs of all excellence.
Good men are the stars, the planets of the ages wherein they live, and illustrate the times.
Good mind, good find.
Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, /
Is the immediate jewel of their souls; / Who steals my purse, steals trash; 'tis something, nothing; / 'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; / But he that filches from me my good name, / Robs me of that which not enriches him, / And makes me poor indeed.
Good-nature and good sense are usually companions.
Good-nature and good sense must ever join; / To err is human, to forgive divine.
Good-nature is more agreeable in conversation than wit, and gives a certain air to the countenance which is more amiable than beauty.
Good-nature is stronger than tomahawks.
Good-nature is the beauty of the mind, and,
like personal beauty, wins almost without anything else.
Good-nature is the very air of a good mind, the sign of a large and generous soul, and the peculiar soil in which virtue flourishes.
Good-night, good-night; parting is such sweet sorrow / That I will say good-night till it be to-morrow.
Good pastures make fat sheep.
Good people live far apart.
Good poetry is always personification, and
heightens every species of force by giving it a human volition.
Good poets are the inspired interpreters of the gods.
Good qualities are the substantial riches of the mind, but it is good-breeding that sets them off to advantage.
Good reasons must of force give place to better.
Good right needs good help.
Good-sense and good-nature are never separated,
though the ignorant world has thought otherwise.
Good-sense, which only is the gift of Heaven, / And though no science, fairly worth the seven.
Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.... It is to be all made of sighs and tears.... It is to be all made of faith and service.... It is to be all made of fantasy, / All made of passion, and all made of wishes; / All adoration, duty, and observance; / All humbleness, all patience, and impatience; / All purity, all trial, all observance.
Good sword has often been in poor scabbard.
Good take heed / Doth surely speed.
Good taste cannot supply the place of genius
in literature, for the best proof of taste, when there is no genius, would be not to write at all.
Good taste comes more from the judgment than from the mind.
Good taste is the flower of good sense.
Good taste is the modesty of the mind; that is why it cannot be either imitated or acquired.
Good the more / Communicated more abundant grows.
Good things take time.
Good thoughts are no better than good dreams unless they be executed.
Good to begin well, but better to end well.
Good to the heels the well-worn slipper feels / When the tired player shuffles off the buskin; / A page of Hood may do a fellow good / After a scolding from Carlyle or Ruskin.
Good unexpected, evil unforeseen, / Appear by turns, as fortune shifts the scene; / Some rais'd aloft, come tumbling down amain / And fall so hard, they bound and rise again.
Good ware makes a quick market.
Good-will is everything in morals, but nothing in art; in art, capability alone is anything.
Good-will, like a good name, is got by many actions and lost by one.
Good wine is a good familiar creature, if it be well used.
Good wine is its own recommendation.
Good wine needs no brandy.
Good wine needs no bush
Good women grudge each other nothing, save only clothes, husbands, and flax.
Good words and no deeds.
Good words cool more than cold water.
Good words cost nothing and are worth much.
Good words do more than hard speeches; as the sunbeams, without any noise, will make the traveller cast off his cloak, which all the blustering winds could not do, but only make him bind it closer to him.
Good works will never save you, but you will never be saved without them.
Good writing and brilliant discourse are perpetual allegories.
Goodman Fact is allowed by everybody to be a plain-spoken person, and a man of very few words; tropes and figures are his aversion.
Goodness and being in the gods are one; / He
who imputes ill to them makes them none.
Goodness consists not in the outward things we do, but in the inward thing we are.
Goodness is beauty in its best estate.
Goodness is everywhere, and is everywhere to be found, if we will only look for it.
Gorgons, and hydras, and chimæras dire.
Gossiping and lying go hand in hand.
Gossip is a sort of smoke that comes from the dirty tobacco-pipes of those who diffuse it; it proves nothing but the bad taste of the smoker.
Gott hilft nur dann, wenn Menschen nicht mehr helfen
Gott ist ein unaussprechlicher Seufzer, in Grunde der Seele gelegen
Gott ist eine leere Tafel, auf der / Nichts weiter steht, als was du selbst / Darauf geschrieben
Gott ist mächtiger und weiser als wir; darum
macht er mit uns nach seinem Gefallen
Gott ist überall, ausser wo er seinem Statthalter hat
Gottlob! wir haben das Original
Gott macht gesund, und der Doktor kriegt das Geld
Gott mit uns
Gott müsst ihr im Herzen suchen und finden
Gott schuf ja aus Erden den Ritter und Knecht. / Ein hoher Sinn adelt auch niedres Geschlecht
Gott-trunkener Mensch
Gott verlässt den Mutigen nimmer
Göttern kann man nicht vergelten; / Schön ist's, ihnen gleich zu sein
Gottes Freund, der Pfaffen Feind
Gottes ist der Orient, / Gottes ist der Occident, / Nord-und Südliches Gelände / Ruht im Friede seiner Hände
Gottes Mühle geht langsam, aber sie mahlt fein
Göttliche Apathie und thierische Indifferenz
werden nur zu oft verwechselt
Goutte à goutte
Govern the lips as they were palace-doors, the king within; / Tranquil and fair and courteous be all words which from that presence win.
Government and co-operation are in all things the laws of life; anarchy and competition, the laws of death.
Government arrogates to itself that it alone forms men.... Everybody knows that Government never began anything. It is the whole world that thinks and governs.
Government began in tyranny and force, in
the feudalism of the soldier and the bigotry of the priest; and the ideas of justice and humanity have been fighting their way like a thunderstorm against the organised selfishness of human nature.
Government has been a fossil; it should be a plant.
Government is a contrivance of human wisdom to provide for human wants.
Government is a necessary evil, like other go-carts and crutches. Our need of it shows exactly how far we are still children. All governing over-much kills the self-help and energy of the governed.
Government is a trust, and the officers of the government are trustees; and both the trust and the trustees are created for the benefit of the people.
Government is the greatest combination of
forces known to human society. It can command more men and raise more money than any and all other agencies combined.
Government must always be a step ahead of the popular movement
Government of the people, by the people and for the people, shall not perish from the earth.
Government of the will is better than increase of knowledge.
Government should direct poor men what to do.
Governments exist only for the good of the
people.
Governments exist to protect the rights of minorities.
Governments have their origin in the moral identity of men.
Gowd
Gowd is gude only in the hand o' virtue.
Goza tû de tu poco, mientras busca mas el
loco
Grace abused brings forth the foulest deeds, / As richest soil the most luxuriant weeds.
Grace has been defined the outward expression of the inward harmony of the soul.
Grace in women has more effect than beauty.
Grace is a light superior to Nature, which should direct and preside over it.
Grace is a plant, where'er it grows / Of pure
and heavenly root; / But fairest in the youngest shows, / And yields the sweetest fruit.
Grace is in garments, in movements, and manners; beauty in the nude and in forms.
Grace is more beautiful than beauty.
Grace is the beauty of form under the influence of freedom.
Grace is the proper relation of the acting person to the action.
Grace is to the body what good sense is to the
mind.
Grace pays its respects to true intrinsic worth, not to the mere signs and trappings of it, which often only show where it ought to be, not where it really is.
Grace was in all her steps, heav'n in her eye, / In every gesture dignity and love.
Gracefulness cannot subsist without ease.
Gradatim
Gradu diverso, via una
Gradus ad Parnassum
Græcia capta ferum victorem cepit, et artes / Intulit agresti Latio
Gram. loquitur; Dia. vera docet; Rhe. verba colorat; Mu. canit; Ar. numerat; Geo. ponderat; As. docet astra
Grammar knows how to lord it over kings, and with high hand make them obey.
Grammaticus Rhetor Geometres Pictor Aliptes / Augur Schœnobates Medicus Magus--omnia novit
Grain of glory mixt with humbleness / Cures both a fever and lethargicness.
Grand besoin a de fol qui de soi-même le fait
Grand bien ne vient pas en peu d'heures
Grande parure
Grandescunt aucta labore
Grandeur and beauty are so very opposite, that you often diminish the one as you increase the other.
Grandeur has a heavy tax to pay.
Grand parleur, grand menteur
Grand venteur, petit faiseur
Grant but memory to us, and we can lose nothing by death.
Granted the ship comes into harbour with shrouds and tackle damaged; the pilot is blameworthy; he has not been all-wise and all-powerful; but to know how blameworthy, tell us first whether his voyage has been round the globe or only to Ramsgate and the Isle of Dogs.
Gran victoria es la que sin sangre se alcanza
Grasp all, lose all.
Grass grows not on the highway.
Gratia naturam vincit
Grata superveniet quæ non sperabitur hora
Gratiæ expectativæ
Gratia gratiam parit
Gratia, Musa, tibi. Nam tu solatia præbes; / Tu curæ requies, tu medicina mali
Gratia placendi
Gratia pro rebus merito debetur inemtis
Gratior et pulchro veniens in corpore virtus
Gratis
Gratis anhelans, multa agendo nihil agens
Gratis asseritur
Gratitude is a duty which ought to be paid, but which none have a right to expect.
Gratitude is a keen sense of favours to come.
Gratitude is a species of justice.
Gratitude is memory of the heart.
Gratitude is never conferred but where there have been previous endeavours to excite it; we consider it as a debt, and our spirits wear a load till we have discharged the obligation.
Gratitude is one of the rarest of virtues.
Gratitude is the fairest blossom which springs from the soul; and the heart of man knoweth none more fragrant.
Gratitude is the least of virtues, ingratitude
the worst of vices.
Gratitude is with most people only a strong desire for greater benefits to come.
Gratitude once refused can never after be recovered.
Gratitude which consists in good wishes may be said to be dead, as faith without good works is dead.
Gratis dictum
Gratum hominem semper beneficium delectat;
ingratum semel
Grau' Haare sind Kirchhofsblumen
Grau, teurer Freund, ist alle Theorie, / Und grün des Lebens goldner Baum
Grave nihil est homini quod fert necessitas
Grave paupertas malum est, et intolerabile, quæ magnum domat populum
Grave pondus illum magna nobilitas premit
Grave senectus est hominibus pondus
Graves, the dashes in the punctuation of our lives.
Grave virus / Munditiæ pepulere
Graviora quædam sunt remedia periculis
Gravis ira regum semper
Gravissimum est imperium consuetudinis
Gravity is a mysterious carriage of the body, invented to cover the defects of the mind.
Gravity is a taught trick to gain credit of the world for more sense and knowledge than a man is worth.
Gravity is only the bark of wisdom, but it preserves it.
Gravity is the ballast of the soul, which keeps
the mind steady.
Gravity is the best cloak for sin in all countries.
Gravity is the inseparable companion of pride.
Gravity is twin brother to stupidity.
Gravity, with all its pretensions, was no better, but often worse, than what a French wit had long ago defined it, viz., a mysterious carriage of the body to cover the defects of the mind.
Gray hairs seem to my fancy like the light of a soft moon, silvering over the evening of life.
Gray is all theory, and green the while is the golden tree of life.
Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing....
His reasons are as two grains of wheat hid in two bushels of chaff; you will seek all day ere you find them; and when you have them, they are not worth the search.
Great actions crown themselves with lasting bays; / Who well deserves needs not another's praise.
Great acts grow out of great occasions, and great occasions spring from great principles, working changes in society and tearing it up by the roots.
Great ambition is the passion of a great character. He who is endowed with it may perform very good or very bad actions; all depends upon the principles which direct him.
Great art dwells in all that is beautiful; but false art omits or changes all that is ugly. Great art accepts Nature as she is, but directs the eyes and thoughts to what is most perfect in her; false art saves itself the trouble of direction by removing or altering whatever is objectionable.
Great attention to what is said and sweetness
of speech, a great degree of kindness and the appearance of awe, are always tokens of a man's attachment.
Great barkers are nae biters.
Great boast, small roast.
Great books are written for Christianity much oftener than great deeds are done for it.
Great causes are never tried on their merits; but the cause is reduced to particulars to suit the size of the partisans, and the contention is ever hottest on minor matters.
Great countries are those that produce great
men.
Great cowardice is hidden by a bluster of daring.
Great cry but little wool, as the devil said when he shear'd his hogs.
Great deeds cannot die; / They with the sun and moon renew their light, / For ever blessing those that look on them.
Great deeds immortal are--they cannot die, / Unscathed by envious blight or withering frost, / They live, and bud, and bloom; and men partake / Still of their freshness, and are strong thereby.
Great dejection often follows great enthusiasm.
Great edifices, like great mountains, are the work of ages.
Great endowments often announce themselves in youth in the form of singularity and awkwardness.
Great, ever fruitful; profitable for reproof, for encouragement, for building up in manful purposes and works, are the words of those that in their day were men.
Great evils one triumphs over bravely, but the little eat away one's heart.
Great fleas have little fleas / Upon their backs
to bite 'em; / And little fleas have lesser fleas, / And so ad infinitum.
Great folks have five hundred friends because they have no occasion for them.
Great fools have great bells.
Great genial power consists in being altogether receptive.
Great geniuses have always the shortest biographies.
Great gifts are for great men.
Great God, I had rather be / A Pagan suckled in some creed outworn; / So might I, standing on this pleasant lea, / Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn.
Great grief makes those sacred upon whom its hand is laid. Joy may elevate, ambition glorify, but sorrow alone can consecrate.
Great griefs medicine the less.
Great haste makes great waste.
Great honours are great burdens; but on
whom / They're cast with envy, he doth bear two loads.
Great joy is only earned by great exertion.
Great is he who enjoys his earthenware as if it were plate, and not less great the man to whom all his plate is no more than earthenware.
Great is not great to the greater.
Great is self-denial! Life goes all to ravels and tatters where that enters not.
Great is song used to great ends.
Great is the soul, and plain. It is no flatterer, it is no follower; it never appeals from itself.
Great is the strength of an individual soul true to its high trust; mighty is it, even to the redemption of a world.
Great is truth, and mighty above all things.
Great is wisdom; infinite is the value of wisdom. It cannot be exaggerated; it is the highest achievement of man.
Great joy, especially after a sudden change
and revolution of circumstances, is apt to be silent, and dwells rather in the heart than on the tongue.
Great knowledge, if it be without vanity, is the most severe bridle of the tongue.
Great lies are as great as great truths, and prevail constantly and day after day.
Great lords have great hands, but they do not reach to heaven.
Great Mammon!--greatest god below the sky.
Great men are always of a nature originally melancholy.
Great men are among the best gifts which God bestows upon a people.
Great men are like eagles, and build their nest on some lofty solitude.
Great men are more distinguished by range and extent than by originality.
Great men are never sufficiently known but in
struggles.
Great men are not always wise.
Great men are rarely isolated mountain-peaks; they are the summits of ranges.
Great men are sincere.
Great men are the fire-pillars in this dark pilgrimage of mankind; they stand as heavenly signs, ever-living witnesses of what has been, prophetic tokens of what may still be, the revealed, embodied possibilities of human nature.
Great Men are the inspired (speaking and
acting) Texts of that Divine Book of Revelations, whereof a Chapter is completed from epoch to epoch, and by some named History.
Great men are the modellers, patterns, and in a wide sense creators, of whatsoever the general mass of men contrived to do and attain.
Great men are the true men, the men in whom Nature has succeeded.
Great men are they who see that spiritual is stronger than any material force, that thoughts rule the world.
Great men do not content us. It is their solitude, not their force, that makes them conspicuous.
Great men do not play stage tricks with the
doctrines of life and death; only little men do that.
Great men essay enterprises because they think them great, and fools because they think them easy.
Great men get more by obliging inferiors than by disdaining them.
Great men, great nations have ever been perceivers of the terror of life, and have manned themselves to face it.
Great men have their parasites.
Great men lose somewhat of their greatness by
being near us; ordinary men gain much.
Great men may jest with saints; 'tis wit in them, / But in the less, foul profanation.
Great men need to be lifted upon the shoulders of the whole world, in order to conceive their great ideas or perform their great deeds; that is, there must be an atmosphere of greatness round about them. A hero cannot be a hero unless in a heroic world.
Great men not only know their business, but they usually know that they know it, and are not only right in their main opinions, but they usually know that they are right in them.
Great men oft die by vile Bezonians.
Great men often rejoice at crosses of fortune,
just as brave soldiers do at wars.
Great men or men of great gifts you will easily find, but symmetrical men never.
Great men, said Themistocles, are like the oaks, under the branches of which men are happy in finding a refuge in the time of storm and rain; but when they have to pass a sunny day under them, they take pleasure in cutting the bark and breaking the branches.
Great men should drink with harness on their throats.
Great men should think of opportunity, and not of time. Time is the excuse of feeble and puzzled spirits.
Great men stand like solitary towers in the
city of God, and secret passages running deep beneath external Nature give their thoughts intercourse with higher intelligences, which strengthens and consoles them, and of which the labourers on the surface do not even dream.
Great men, though far above us, are felt to be our brothers; and their elevation shows us what vast possibilities are wrapped up in our common humanity. They beckon us up the gleaming heights to whose summits they have climbed. Their deeds are the woof of this world's history.
Great men too often have greater faults than little men can find room for.
Great men will always pay deference to greater.
Great minds erect their never-failing trophies on the firm base of mercy.
Great minds had rather deserve contemporaneous
applause without obtaining it, than obtain without deserving it.
Great minds, like Heaven, are pleased in doing good, / Though the ungrateful subjects of their favours / Are barren in return.
Great minds seek to labour for eternity. All other men are captivated by immediate advantages; great minds are excited by the prospect of distant good.
Great names stand not alone for great deeds; they stand also for great virtues, and, doing them worship, we elevate ourselves.
Great part of human suffering has its root in the nature of man, and not in that of his institutions.
Great passions are incurable diseases; the
very remedies make them worse.
Great patriots must be men of great excellence; this alone can secure to them lasting admiration.
Great people and champions are special gifts of God, whom He gives and preserves; they do their work and achieve great actions, not with vain imaginations or cold and sleepy cogitations, but by motion of God.
Great pleasures are much less frequent than great pains.
Great poets are no sudden prodigies, but slow results.
Great poets try to describe what all men see
and to express what all men feel; if they cannot describe it, they let it alone.
Great profits, great risks.
Great results cannot be achieved at once; and we must be satisfied to advance in life as we walk, step by step.
Great revolutions, whatever may be their causes, are not lightly commenced, and are not concluded with precipitation.
Great souls are always royally submissive, reverent to what is over them; only small, mean souls are otherwise.
Great souls are not cast down by adversity.
Great souls are not those which have less
passion and more virtue than common souls, but only those which have greater designs.
Great souls attract sorrows as mountains do storms. But the thunder-clouds break upon them, and they thus form a shelter for the plains around.
Great souls care only for what is great.
Great souls endure in silence.
Great souls forgive not injuries till time has put their enemies within their power, that they may show forgiveness is their own.
Great spirits and great business do keep out
this weak passion
Great talents are rare, and they rarely recognise themselves.
Great talents have some admirers, but few friends.
Great talkers are like leaky pitchers, everything runs out of them.
Great talkers are little doers.
Great thieves hang little ones.
Great things are done when men and mountains meet; / These are not done by jostling in the street.
Great things through greatest hazards are achiev'd, / And then they shine.
Great thoughts and a pure heart are the things we should beg for ourselves from God.
Great thoughts come from the heart.
Great thoughts, great feelings come to them, /
Like instincts, unawares.
Great thoughts reduced to practice become great acts.
Great towns are but a large sort of prison to the soul, like cages to birds or pounds to beasts.
Great warmth at first is the certain ruin of every great achievement. Doth not water, although ever so cool, moisten the earth?
Great warriors, like great earthquakes, are principally remembered for the mischief they have done.
Great wealth, great care.
Great wits are sure to madness near allied, / And thin partitions do their bounds divide.
Great wits to madness nearly are allied; / Both serve to make our poverty our pride.
Great women belong to history and to self-sacrifice.
Great works are performed, not by strength, but by perseverance.
Great writers and orators are commonly economists
in the use of words.
Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
Greater than man, less than woman.
Greatest scandal waits on greatest state.
Greatly to find quarrel in a straw, / When honour's at the stake.
Greatness and goodness are not means, but
ends.
Greatness appeals to the future.
Greatness, as we daily see it, is unsociable.
Greatness can only be rightly estimated when minuteness is justly reverenced. Greatness is the aggregation of minuteness; nor can its sublimity be felt truthfully by any mind unaccustomed to the affectionate watching of what is least.
Greatness doth not approach him who is for ever looking down.
Greatness envy not; for thou mak'st thereby /
Thyself the worse, and so the distance greater.
Greatness, in any period and under any circumstances, has always been rare. It is of elemental birth, and is independent alike of its time and its circumstances.
Greatness is a spiritual condition worthy to excite love, interest, and admiration; and the outward proof of greatness is that we excite love, interest, and admiration.
Greatness is its own torment.
Greatness is like a laced coat from Monmouth Street, which fortune lends us for a day to wear, to-morrow puts it on another's back.
Greatness is not a teachable nor gainable
thing, but the expression of the mind of a God-made man: teach, or preach, or labour as you will, everlasting difference is set between one man's capacity and another's; and this God-given supremacy is the priceless thing, always just as rare in the world at one time as another.... And nearly the best thing that men can generally do is to set themselves, not to the attainment, but the discovery of this: learning to know gold, when we see it, from iron-glance, and diamond from flint-sand, being for most of us a more profitable employment than trying to make diamonds of our own charcoal.
Greatness is nothing unless it be lasting.
Greatness lies not in being strong, but in the right using of strength. He is greatest whose strength carries up the most hearts by the attraction of his own.
Greatness may be present in lives whose range is very small.
Greatness of mind is not shown by admitting small things, but by making small things great under its influence. He who can take no interest in what is small will take false interest in what is great.
Greatness, once and for ever, has done with opinion.
Greatness, once fallen out with fortune, / Must fall out with men too; what the declined is, / He shall as soon read in the eyes of others / As feel in his own fall.
Greatness stands upon a precipice; and if prosperity carry a man never so little beyond his poise, it overbears and dashes him to pieces.
Greatness, thou gaudy torment of our souls, / The wise man's fetter and the rage of fools.
Greatness, with private men / Esteem'd a
blessing, is to me a curse; / And we, whom from our high births they conclude / The only free men, are the only slaves: / Happy the golden mean.
Greediness bursts the bag.
Greedy folk hae lang airms.
Greedy misers rail at sordid misers.
Greek architecture is the flowering of geometry.
Greek art, and all other art, is fine when it
makes a man's face as like a man's face as it can.
Greif nicht leicht in ein Wespennest, Doch wenn du greifst, so stehe fest
Greife schnell zum Augenblicke, nur die Gegenwart ist dein
Grex totus in agris / Unius scabie cadit
Grex venalium
Grey hairs are wisdom--if you hold your
tongue; / Speak--and they are but hairs, as in the young.
Grief best is pleased with grief's society.
Grief boundeth where it falls, / Not with an empty hollowness, but weight.
Grief divided is made lighter.
Grief fills the room up of my absent child, / Lies in his bed, walks up and down with me; / Puts on his pretty look, repeats his words, / Remembers me of all his gracious parts, / Stuffs out his vacant garments with his form: / Then have I reason to be fond of grief.
Grief finds some ease by him that like doth
bear.
Grief hallows hearts, even while it ages heads.
Grief has its time.
Grief knits two hearts in closer bonds than happiness ever can, and common sufferings are far stronger links than common joys.
Grief is a species of idleness, and the necessity of attention to the present, preserves us from being lacerated and devoured by sorrow for the past.
Grief is a stone that bears one down, but two
bear it lightly.
Grief is only the memory of widowed affection.
Grief is proud and makes his owner stout.
Grief is so far from retrieving a loss that it makes it greater; but the way to lessen it is by a comparison with others' losses.
Grief is the agony of an instant; the indulgence of grief the blunder of a life.
Grief is the culture of the soul; it is the true
fertiliser.
Grief, like a tree, has tears for its fruit.
Grief makes one hour ten.
Grief or misfortune seems to be indispensable to the development of intelligence, energy, and virtue.
Grief sharpens the understanding and strengthens the soul, whereas joy seldom troubles itself about the former, and makes the latter either effeminate or frivolous.
Grief should be / Like joy, majestic, equable,
sedate, / Conforming, cleansing, raising, making free.
Grief should be the instructor of the wise; / Sorrow is knowledge: they who know the most / Must mourn the deepest o'er the fatal truth, / The Tree of Knowledge is not that of Life.
Grief still treads upon the heels of Pleasure.
Grief, which disposes gentle natures to retirement, to inaction, and to meditation, only makes restless spirits more restless.
Griefs assured are felt before they come.
Grim-visaged war hath smoothed his wrinkled
front.... He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber, / To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
Grind the faces of the poor.
Gross and vulgar minds will always pay a higher respect to wealth than to talent; for wealth, although it is a far less efficient source of power than talent, happens to be far more intelligible.
Gross Diligenz und klein Conscienz macht reich
Gross ist, wer Feinde tapfer überwand; / Doch grösser ist, wer sie gewonnen
Gross kann man sich im Glück, erhaben nur
im Unglück zeigen
Gross und leer, wie das Heidelberger Fass
Grosse Leidenschaften sind Krankheiten ohne Hoffnung; was sie heilen könnte, macht sie erst recht gefährlich
Grosse Seelen dulden still
Grosser Herren Leute lassen sich was bedünken
Grudge not another what you canna get yoursel'.
Grudge not one against another.
Guardalo ben, guardalo tutto / L'uom senza danar quanto è brutto
Guardati da aceto di vin dolce
Guardati da chi non ha che perdere
Guardati dall' occasione, e ti guarderà / Dio da peccati
Guards from outward harms are sent; / Ills from within thy reason must prevent.
Guard well thy thought; / Our thoughts are heard in heaven.
Gude advice is ne'er out o' season.
Gude bairns are eith to lear
Gude breeding and siller mak' our sons gentlemen.
Gude claes
Gude folk are scarce, tak' care o' ane.
Gude foresight furthers the wark.
Gude wares mak' a quick market.
Guds Raadkammer har ingen Nögle
Guenille, si l'on veut; ma guenille m'est chère
Guerra al cuchillo
Guerra cominciata, inferno scatenato
Guerre à mort
Guerre à outrance
Guerre aux châteaux, paix aux chaumières!
Guessing is missing
Guilt is a spiritual Rubicon.
Guilt is ever at a loss, and confusion waits
upon it.
Guilt is the source of sorrow; 'tis the fiend, / Th' avenging fiend that follows us behind / With whips and stings.
Guilt, though it may attain temporal splendour, can never confer real happiness.
Guiltiness will speak, though tongues were out of use.
Guilty consciences make men cowards.
Gunpowder is the emblem of politic revenge,
for it biteth first and barketh afterwards; the bullet being at the mark before the noise is heard, so that it maketh a noise not by way of warning, but of triumph.
Gunpowder makes all men alike tall.... Hereby at last is the Goliath powerless and the David resistless; savage animalism is nothing, inventive spiritualism is all.
Gustatus est sensus ex omnibus maxime voluptarius
Gut Gewissen ist ein sanftes Ruhekissen
Gut verloren, etwas verloren; / Ehre verloren, viel verloren; / Mut verloren, alles verloren
Güte bricht einem kein Bein
Guter Rath kommt über Nacht
Guter Rath lässt sich geben, aber gute Sitte nicht
Gutes aus Gutem, das kann jedweder Verständige bilden; / Aber der Genius ruft Gutes aus Schlechtem hervor
Gutes und Böses kommt unerwartet dem Menschen; / Auch verkündet, glauben wir's nicht
Gutta cavat lapidem, consumitur annulus
usu, / Et teritur pressa vomer aduncus humo
Gutta cavat lapidem non vi, sed sæpe cadendo
Gutta fortunæ præ dolio sapientiæ
Ha! lass dich den Teufel bei einem Haar fassen, und du bist sein auf ewig
Ha! welche Lust, Soldat zu sein
Hab' mich nie mit Kleinigkeiten abgegeben
"Habe gehabt," ist ein armer Mann
Habeas corpus
Habeas corpus ad prosequendum
Habeas corpus ad respondendum
Habeas corpus ad satisfaciendum
Habemus confitentem reum
Habemus luxuriam atque avaritiam, publice egestatem, privatim opulentiam
Habent insidias hominis blanditiæ mali
Habent sua fata libelli
Habeo senectuti magnam gratiam, quæ mihi sermonis aviditatem auxit
Habere derelictui rem suam
Habere et dispertire
Habere facias possessionem
Habere, non haberi
Habet aliquid ex iniquo omne magnum exemplum, quod contra singulos, utilitate publica rependitur
Habet iracundia hoc mali, non vult regi
Habet salem
Habit and imitation are the source of all working and all apprenticeship, of all practice and all learning, in this world.
Habit gives endurance, and fatigue is the best
nightcap.
Habit, if not resisted, soon becomes necessity.
Habit is a cable. We weave a thread of it every day, and at last we cannot break it.
Habit is a second nature, which destroys the first.
Habit is necessary to give power.
Habit is ten times nature.
Habit is the deepest law of human nature.
Habit is the purgatory in which we suffer for our past sins.
Habit is too arbitrary a master for my liking.
Habit, with its iron sinews, clasps and leads us day by day.
Habits are at first cobwebs, at last cables.
Habits
Habits leave their impress upon the mind, even after they are given up.
Habitual intoxication is the epitome of every crime.
Hablar sin pensar es tirar sin encarar
Hac mercede placet
Hac sunt in fossa Bedæ venerabilis ossa
Hac urget lupus, hac canis
Hactenus
Had Cæsar or Cromwell changed countries, the one might have been a sergeant and the other an exciseman.
Had God meant me to be different, He would
have created me different.
Had I but serv'd my God with half the zeal / I serv'd my king, He would not in mine age / Have left me naked to mine enemies.
Had I succeeded well, I had been reckoned amongst the wise; so ready are we to judge from the event.
Had not God made this world, and death too, it were an insupportable place.
Had religion been a mere chimæra, it would long ago have been extinct; were it susceptible of a definite formula, that formula would long ago have been discovered.
Had sigh'd to many, though he loved but one.
Had we never loved sae kindly, / Had we never loved sae blindly, / Never met or never parted, / We had ne'er been broken-hearted!
Hæ nugæ seria ducent / In mala
Hæ tibi erant artes, pacisque imponere morem, / Parcere subjectis et debellare superbos
Hae you gear
heart, and a'
Hæc a te non multum abludit imago
Hæc amat obscurum; volet hæc sub luce videri, / Judicis argutum quæ non formidat acumen; / Hæc placuit semel; hæc decies repetita placebit
Hæc brevis est nostrorum summa malorum
Hæc ego mecum / Compressis agito labris; ubi quid datur oti, / Illudo chartis
Hæc est condicio vivendi, aiebat, eoque / Responsura tuo nunquam est par fama labori
Hæc generi incrementa fides
Hæc olim meminisse juvabit
Hæc omnia transeunt
Hæc perinde sunt, ut illius animus, qui ea possidet. / Qui uti scit, ei bona, illi qui non utitur recte, mala
Hæc prima lex in amicitia sanciatur, ut neque rogemus res turpes, nec faciamus rogati
Hæc scripsi non otii abundantia, sed amoris
erga te
Hæc studia adolescentiam alunt, senectutem oblectant, secundas res ornant, adversis solatium ac perfugium præbent, delectant domi, non impediunt foris, pernoctant nobiscum, peregrinantur, rusticantur
Hæc studia oblectant
Hæc sunt jucundi causa cibusque mali
Hæc vivendi ratio mihi non convenit
Hæredis fletus sub persona risus est
Hæreditas nunquam ascendit
Hæres jure repræsentationis
Hæres legitimus est quem nuptiæ demonstrant
Hæret lateri lethalis arundo
Halb sind sie kalt, Halb sind sie roh
Half a house is half a hell.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Half a man's wisdom goes with his courage.
Half a word fixed upon, or near, the spot is worth a cartload of recollection.
Half the ease of life oozes away through the
leaks of unpunctuality.
Half the gossip of society would perish if the books that are truly worth reading were but read.
Half the ills we hoard within our hearts are ills because we hoard them.
Half the logic of misgovernment lies in this one sophistical dilemma: if the people are turbulent, they are unfit for liberty; if they are quiet, they do not want liberty.
Half-wits greet each other.
Hältst du Natur getreu im Augenmerk, /
Frommt jeder tüchtige Meister dir: / Doch klammerst du dich blos an Menschenwerk, / Wird alles, was du schaffst, Manier
Hanc personam induisti, agenda est
Hanc veniam petimusque damusque vicissim
Hands that the rod of empire might have sway'd. / Or waked to ecstacy the living lyre.
Handsome is that handsome does.
Handsomeness is the more animal excellence,
beauty the more imaginative.
Häng' an die grosse Glocke nicht / Was jemand im Vertrauen spricht
Hang a thief when he's young, and he'll no steal when he's auld.
Hang constancy! you know too much of the world to be constant, sure.
Hang sorrow! care will kill a cat, / And therefore let's be merry.
Hänge nicht alles auf einen Nagel
Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.
Hannibal ad portas
Hap and mishap govern the world.
Happiest they of human race, / To whom God has granted grace / To read, to fear, to hope, to pray, / To lift the latch and force the way; / And better had they ne'er been born, / Who read to doubt, or read to scorn.
Happily to steer / From grave to gay, from
lively to severe.
Happiness consists in activity; it is a running stream, and not a stagnant pool.
Happiness depends not on the things, but on the taste.
Happiness grows at our own firesides, and is not to be picked up in strangers' galleries.
Happiness is a ball after which we run wherever it rolls, and we push it with our feet when it stops.
Happiness is a chimæra and suffering a reality.
Happiness is "a tranquil acquiescence under an agreeable delusion."
Happiness is but a dream, and sorrow a reality.
Happiness is deceitful as the calm that precedes the hurricane, smooth as the water on the verge of the cataract, and beautiful as the rainbow, that smiling daughter of the storm.
Happiness is like the mirage in the desert; she tantalises us with a delusion that distance creates and that contiguity destroys.
Happiness is like the statue of Isis, whose
veil no mortal ever raised.
Happiness is matter of opinion, of fancy, in fact, but it must amount to conviction, else it is nothing.
Happiness is neither within us nor without us; it is the union of ourselves with God.
Happiness is nothing but the conquest of God through love.
Happiness is only evident to us by deliverance from evil.
Happiness is the fine and gentle rain which
penetrates the soul, but which afterwards gushes forth in springs of tears.
Happiness is unrepented pleasure.
Happiness lies first of all in health.
Happiness, like Juno, is a goddess in pursuit, but a cloud in possession, deified by those who cannot enjoy her, and despised by those who can.
Happiness never lays its fingers on its pulse.
Happiness springs not from a large fortune, but temperate habits and simple wishes. Riches increase not by increase of the supply of want, but by decrease of the sense of it,--the minimum of it being the maximum of them.
Happiness, that grand mistress of ceremonies in the dance of life, impels us through all its mazes and meanderings, but leads none of us by the same route.
Happiness travels incognita to keep a private
assignation with contentment, and to partake of a tête-à-tête and a dinner of herbs in a cottage.
Happiness, when unsought, is often found, and when unexpected, often obtained; while those who seek her the most diligently fail the most, because they seek her where she is not.
Happy are they that hear their detractions, and can put them to mending.
Happy child! the cradle is still to thee an infinite space; once grown into a man, and the boundless world will be too small to thee.
Happy contractedness of youth, nay, of mankind in general, that they think neither of the high nor the deep, of the true nor the false, but only of what is suited to their own conceptions.
Happy he for whom a kind heavenly sun
brightens the ring of necessity into a ring of duty.
Happy he that can abandon everything by which his conscience is defiled or burdened.
Happy in that we are not over-happy; / On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
Happy is he who soon discovers the chasm that lies between his wishes and his powers.
Happy is that house and blessed is that congregation where Martha still complains of Mary.
Happy he whose last hour strikes in the midst
of his children.
Happy is he that is happy in his children.
Happy is he to whom his business itself becomes a puppet, who at length can play with it, and amuse himself with what his situation makes his duty.
Happy is the boy whose mother is tired of talking nonsense to him before he is old enough to know the sense of it.
Happy is the hearing man; unhappy the speaking man.
Happy is the man who can endure the highest
and the lowest fortune. He who has endured such vicissitudes with equanimity has deprived misfortune of its power.
Happy is the man whose father went to the devil.
Happy lowly clown! / Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown!
Happy men are full of the present, for its bounty suffices them; and wise men also, for its duties engage them. Our grand business undoubtedly is not to see what lies dimly at a distance, but to do what lies clearly at hand.
Happy season of virtuous youth, when shame is still an impassable celestial barrier, and the sacred air-castles of hope have not shrunk into the mean clay hamlets of reality, and man by his nature is yet infinite and free.
Happy that I can / Be crossed and thwarted
as a man, / Not left in God's contempt apart, / With ghastly smooth life, dead at heart, / Tame in earth's paddock, as her prize.
Happy the man, and happy he alone, / He who can call to-day his own; / He who, secure within, can say, / To-morrow do thy worst, for I have lived to-day.
Happy the man to whom Heaven has given a morsel of bread without his being obliged to thank any other for it than Heaven itself.
Happy the people whose annals are blank in History's book.
Happy thou art not; / For what thou hast not still thou striv'st to get, / And what thou hast, forgett'st.
Happy who in his verse can gently steer, /
From grave to light, from pleasant to severe.
Hard is the factor's rule; no better is the minister's.
Hard pounding, gentlemen; but we shall see who can pound the longest.
Hard with hard builds no houses; soft binds hard.
Hard work is still the road to prosperity, and there is no other.
Hardness ever of hardiness is mother.
Hardship is the native soil of manhood and self-reliance.
Harm watch, harm catch.
Hart kann die Tugend sein, doch grausam nie, / unmenschlich nie
Harvests are Nature's bank dividends.
Has any man, or any society of men, a truth
to speak, a piece of spiritual work to do; they can nowise proceed at once and with the mere natural organs, but must first call a public meeting, appoint committees, issue prospectuses, eat a public dinner; in a word, construct or borrow machinery, wherewith to speak it and do it. Without machinery they were hopeless, helpless; a colony of Hindoo weavers squatting in the heart of Lancashire.
Has patitur pœnas peccandi sola voluntas. / Nam scelus intra se tacitum qui cogitat ullum, / Facti crimen habet
Has pœnas garrula lingua dedit
Has vaticinationes eventus comprobavit
Hassen und Neiden / Muss der Biedre leiden. / Es erhöht des Mannes Wert, / Wenn der Hass sich auf ihn kehrt
Hast du im Thal ein sichres Haus, / Dann wolle nie zu hoch hinaus
Haste and rashness are storms and tempests,
breaking and wrecking business; but nimbleness is a full, fair wind, blowing it with speed to the haven.
Haste is of the devil.
Haste makes waste, and waste makes want, and want makes strife between the gudeman and the gudewife.
Haste trips up its own heels, fetters and stops itself.
Haste turns usually on a matter of ten minutes too late.
Hasty resolutions seldom speed well.
Hat man die Liebe durchgeliebt / Fängt man die Freundschaft an
Hate injures no one; it is contempt that casts men down.
Hate makes us vehement partisans, but love still more so.
Hâtez-vous lentement, et sans perdre courage
Hath fortune dealt thee ill cards? Let wisdom
make thee a good gamester.
Hath not a Jew eyes? hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions? fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject to the same diseases, healed by the same means, warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer, as a Christian is? If you prick us, do we not bleed? if you tickle us, do we not laugh? if you poison us, do we not die? and if you wrong us, shall not we revenge?
Hatred does not cease by hatred at any time; hatred ceases by love.
Hatred is a heavy burden. It sinks the heart deep in the breast, and lies like a tombstone on all joys.
Hatred is active, and envy passive, disgust; there is but one step from envy to hate.
Hatred is but an inverse love.
Hatred is keener than friendship, less keen than love.
Hatred is like fire; it makes even light rubbish deadly.
"Hätte ich gewusst," ist ein armer Mann
Haud æquum facit, / Qui quod didicit, id dediscit
Haud facile emergunt quorum virtutibus obstat
/ Res angusta domi
Haud ignara ac non incauta futuri
Haud ignara mali miseris succurrere disco
Haud passibus æquis
Haut et bon
Haut goût
Have a care o' the main chance.
Have a spécialité, a work in which you are at home.
Have any deepest scientific individuals yet dived down to the foundations of the universe and gauged everything there? Did the Maker take them into His counsel, that they read His ground-plan of the incomprehensible All, and can say, This stands marked therein, and no more than this? Alas! not in any wise.
Have I a religion, have I a country, have I a love, that I am ready to die for? are the first trial questions to itself of a true soul.
Have I in conquest stretched mine arm so far /
To be afeard to tell gray-beards the truth?
Have I not earn'd my cake in baking of it?
Have more than thou showest; / Speak less than thou knowest; / Lend less than thou owest; / Learn more than thou trowest; / Set less than thou throwest.
Have not all nations conceived their God as omnipresent and eternal, as existing in a universal Here, an everlasting Now?
Have not thy cloak to make when it begins to rain.
Have the French for friends, but not for neighbours.
Have you found your life distasteful? / My life did, and does, smack sweet. / Was your youth of pleasure wasteful? / Mine I saved and hold complete. / Do your joys with age diminish? / When mine fail me, I'll complain. / Must in death your daylight finish? / My sun sets to rise again.
Have you known how to compose your manners, you have achieved a great deal more than he who has composed books. Have you known how to attain repose, you have achieved more than he who has taken cities and subdued empires.
Have you not heard it said full oft, / A woman's nay doth stand for nought?
Have you prayed to-night, Desdemona?
Having food and raiment, let us be therewith
content.
Having is having, come whence it may.
Having is in no case the fruit of lusting, but of living.
Having sown the seed of secrecy, it should be properly guarded and not in the least broken; for being broken, it will not prosper.
Having waste ground enough, / Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary / And pitch our evils there?
Hay buena cuenta, y no paresca blanca
He alone has energy that cannot be deprived of it.
He alone is happy, and he is truly so, who can say, "Welcome life, whatever it brings! welcome death, whatever it is!"
He alone is worthy of respect who knows what is of use to himself and others, and who labours to control his self-will.
He also that is slothful in his work is brother
to him that is a great waster.
He always wins who sides with God.
He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand; but the hand of the diligent maketh rich.
He behoves to have meat enou' that sal stop ilka man's mou'.
He best restrains anger who remembers God's eye is upon him.
He buys very dear who begs.
He by whom the geese were formed white, parrots stained green, and peacocks painted of various hues--even He will provide for their support.
He can ill run that canna gang
He cannot lay eggs, but he can cackle.
He cannot see the wood for the trees.
He cast off his friends, as a huntsman his
pack, / For he knew, when he pleased, he could whistle them back.
He cometh unto you with a tale which holdeth children from play and old men from the chimney-corner.
He conquers grief who can take a firm resolution.
He could distinguish and divide / A hair 'twixt south and south-west side.
He cries out before he is hurt.
He dances well to whom fortune pipes.
He doesna aye flee when he claps his wings.
He does not deserve wine who drinks it as water.
He does nothing who endeavours to do more than is allowed to humanity.
He doeth much that doeth a thing well.
He doeth well that serveth the common
good rather than his own will.
He doth bestride the narrow world / Like a Colossus; and we petty men / Walk under his huge legs, and peep about / To find ourselves dishonourable graves.
He doubts nothing who knows nothing.
He draweth out the thread of his verbosity finer than the staple of his argument.
He draws nothing well who thirsts not to draw everything.
He either fears his fate too much, / Or his
deserts are small, / Who dares not put it to the touch / To win or lose it all.
He frieth in his own grease.
He gave his honours to the world again, / His blessed part to heaven, and slept in peace.
He giveth His beloved sleep.
He goeth back that continueth not.
He goeth better that creepeth in his way
than he that runneth out of his way.
He had a face like a benediction.
He had been eight years upon a project for extracting sunbeams out of cucumbers, which were to be put in phials hermetically sealed, and let out to warm the air in raw inclement seasons.
He had never kindly heart / Nor ever cared to better his own kind, / Who first wrote satire with no pity in it.
He has a bee in his bonnet
He has a head, and so has a pin.
He has a killing tongue and a quiet sword, by the means whereof 'a breaks words and keeps whole weapons.
He has faut
He has hard work who has nothing to do.
He has no religion who has no humanity.
He has not learned the lesson of life who
does not every day surmount a fear.
He has paid dear, very dear, for his whistle.
He has seen a wolf.
He has verily touched our hearts as with a live coal from the altar who in any way brings home to our heart the noble doings, feelings, darings, and endurances of a brother man.
He has wit at will that, when angry, can sit him still.
He hath a heart as sound as a bell, and his
tongue is the clapper; for what his heart thinks his tongue speaks.
He hath a tear for pity, and a hand / Open as day for melting charity.
He hath ill repented whose sins are repeated.
He hath never fed of the dainties that are bred in a book.
He honours God that imitates Him.
He in whom there is much to be developed will
be later than others in acquiring true perceptions of himself and the world.
He is a fool who empties his purse, or store, to fill another's.
He is a fool who thinks by force or skill / To turn the current of a woman's will.
He is a great and a good man from whom the needy, or those who come for protection, go not away with disappointed hopes and discontented countenances.
He is a great man who inhabits a higher sphere of thought, into which other men rise with labour and difficulty: he has but to open his eyes to see things in a true light and in large relations, while they must make painful corrections, and keep a vigilant eye on many sources of error.
He is a happy man that hath a true friend at his need, but he is more truly happy that hath no need of his friend.
He is a hard man who is only just, and he a sad man who is only wise.
He is a little chimney, and heated hot in a moment!
He is a little man; let him go and work with
the women!
He is a madman
 (_ein Go
He is a man who doth not suffer his members and faculties to cause him uneasiness.
He is a minister who doth not behave with insolence and pride.
He is a poor smith who cannot bear smoke.
He is a strong man who can hold down his
opinion.
He is a true sage who learns from all the world.
He is a very valiant trencherman; he hath an excellent stomach.
He is a wise child that knows his own father.
He is a wise man who does not grieve for the things which he has not, but rejoices for those which he has.
He is a wise man who knoweth that his words
should be suited to the occasion, his love to the worthiness of the object, and his anger according to his strength.
He is a wise man who knows what is wise.
He is a worthy person who is much respected by good men.
He is all there when the bell rings.
He is an eloquent man who can speak of low things acutely, and of great things with dignity, and of moderate things with temper.
He is an unfortunate and on the way to ruin
who will not do what he can, but is ambitious to do what he cannot.
He is below himself who is not above an injury.
He is best served who has no need to put the hands of others at the end of his arms.
He is but a bastard to the time / That doth not smack of observation.
He is but the counterfeit of a man who hath not the life of a man.
He is gentil that doth gentil dedes.
He is great who is what he is from nature, and who never reminds us of others.
He is happiest, be he king or peasant, who finds peace in his own home.
He is happy who is forsaken by his passions.
He is happy whose circumstances suit his temper; but he is more excellent who can suit his temper to any circumstances.
He is just as truly running counter to God's
will by being intentionally wretched as by intentionally doing wrong.
He is kind who guardeth another from misfortune.
He is lifeless that is faultless.
He is my friend that grinds at my mill.
He is my friend that helps me, and not he that pities me.
He is nearest to God who has the fewest wants.
He is neither fish, nor flesh, nor good red herring.
He is no wise man that will quit a certainty for an uncertainty.
He is noble who feels and acts nobly.
He is not a bad driver who knows how to turn.
He is not a true man of science who does not
bring some sympathy to his studies, and expect to learn something by behaviour as well as application.
He is not only idle who does nothing, but he is idle who might be better employed.
He is not the best carpenter who makes the most chips.
He is not yet born who can please everybody.
He is oft the wisest man / Who is not wise at all.
He is richest that has fewest wants.
He is the best dressed gentleman whose dress no one observes.
He is the best gentleman that is the son of his own deserts, and not the degenerated heir of another's virtue.
He is the free man whom the truth makes free, / And all are slaves besides.
He is the greatest artist who has embodied in the sum of his works the greatest number of the greatest ideas.
He is the greatest conqueror who has conquered
himself.
He is the greatest whose strength carries up the most hearts by the attraction of his own.
He is the half part of a blessèd man, / Left to be finishèd by such as she; / And she a fair divided excellence, / Whose fulness of perfection lies in him.
He is the rich man in whom the people are rich, and he is the poor man in whom the people are poor; and how to give access to the masterpieces of art and nature is the problem of civilisation.
He is the rich man who can avail himself of all men's faculties.
He is the world's master who despises it, its
slave who prizes it.
He is truly great who is great in charity.
He is ungrateful who denies a benefit; he is ungrateful who hides it; he is ungrateful who does not return it; he, most of all, who has forgotten it.
He is well paid that is well satisfied.
He is wise that is wise to himself.
He is wise who can instruct us and assist us in the business of daily virtuous living; he who trains us to see old truth under academic formularies may be wise or not, as it chances, but we love to see wisdom in unpretending forms, to recognise her royal features under a week-day vesture.
He is wit's pedlar, and retails his wares / At wakes and wassails, meetings, markets, fairs; / And we that sell by gross, the Lord doth know, / Have not the grace to grace it with such show.
He is wrong who thinks that authority based
on force is more weighty and more lasting than that which rests on kindness.
He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
He judged the cause of the poor and needy; then it was well with him: was not this to know me? saith the Lord.

He kens muckle wha kens when to speak, but tongue.
He knew what's what, and that's as high / As metaphysic wit can fly.
He knocks boldly at the door who brings good
news.
He knows best what good is that has endured evil.
He knows little who will tell his wife all he knows.
He knows much who knows how to hold his tongue.
He knows not how to speak who cannot be silent, still less how to act with vigour and decision.
He knows not what love is that has no children.
He knows the water the best who has waded through it.
He knows very little of mankind who expects, by facts or reasoning, to convince a determined party-man.
He left a name at which the world grew pale, / To point a moral or adorn a tale.
He lies there who never feared the face of man.
He life's war knows / Whom all his passions
follow as he goes.
He little merits bliss who others can annoy.
He lives twice who can at once employ / The present well and e'en the past enjoy.
He lives who lives to God alone, / And all are dead beside; / For other source than God is none / Whence life can be supplied.
He looks the whole world in the face, / For he owes not any man.
He loses his thanks who promises and delays.
He loves but lightly who his love can tell.
He makes no friend who never made a foe.
He
the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.
He maun lout
door.
He may rate himself a happy man who lives
remote from the gods of this world.
Hé, mon ami, tire-moi du danger; tu feras après ta harangue
He most lives / Who thinks most, feels the noblest, acts the best.
He must be a good shot who always hits the mark.
He must be a thorough fool who can learn nothing from his own folly.
He must cry loud who would frighten the devil.
He must needs go that the devil drives.
He must stand high who would see his destiny to the end.
He must mingle with the world that desires to be useful.
He needs a long spoon who eats out of the same dish with the devil.
He needs no foil, but shines by his own proper
light.
He ne'er made a gude darg
 (we
He never is crowned / With immortality, who fears to follow / Where airy voices lead.
He never knew pain who never felt the pangs of love.
He never lees

He never yet stood sure that stands secure.
He on whom Heaven bestows a sceptre knows not the weight of it till he bears it.
He only employs his passion who can make no use of his reason.
He only is advancing in life whose heart is getting softer, whose blood warmer, whose brain quicker, and whose spirit is entering into living peace.
He only is an acute observer who can observe minutely without being observed.
He only is exempt from failures who makes
no efforts.
He only is great of heart who floods the world with a great affection. He only is great of mind who stirs the world with great thoughts. He only is great of will who does something to shape the world to a great career; and he is greatest who does the most of all these things, and does them best.
He only is rich who owns the day.
He only who forgets to hoard has learned to live.
He ought to remember benefits on whom they are conferred; he who confers them ought not to mention them.
He paidles a guid deal in the water, but he
tak's care no to wet his feet.
He prayeth best who loveth best / All things, both great and small; / For the dear Lord who loveth us, / He made and loveth all.
He preaches well who lives well.
He presents me with what is always an acceptable gift who brings me news of a great thought before unknown.
He rais'd a mortal to the skies, / She drew an angel down.
He raises not himself up whom God casts down.
He reads much: / He is a great observer, and he looks / Quite through the deeds of men: he loves no plays, / As thou dost, Anthony; he hears no music: / Seldom he smiles; and smiles in such a sort / As if he mock'd himself, and scorn'd his spirit / That could be moved to smile at anything. / Such men as he be never at heart's ease / Whiles they behold a greater than themselves; / And therefore are they very dangerous.
He rideth easily enough whom the grace of
God carrieth.
He runs far who never turns.
He scarce is knight, yea, but half-man, nor meet / To fight for gentle damsel, he who lets / His heart be stirr'd with any foolish heat / At any gentle damsel's waywardness.
He serves his party best who serves his country best.
He shall be a god to me who can rightly divide and define.
He shone with the greater splendour because
he was not seen.
He sins as much who holds the sack as he who puts into it.
He sleeps as dogs do when wives bake
He spends best that spares to spend again.
He submits himself to be seen through a microscope who suffers himself to be caught in a fit of passion.
He swallows the egg and gives away the shell
in alms.
He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him.
He that aspires to be the head of a party will find it more difficult to please his friends than to perplex his foes. He must often act from false reasons, which are weak, because he dares not avow the true reasons, which are strong.
He that at twenty is not, at thirty knows not, and at forty has not, will never either be, or know, or have.
He that believeth shall not make haste.
He that blows the coals in quarrels he has
nothing to do with, has no right to complain if the sparks fly in his face.
He that boasts of his ancestors confesses that he has no virtue of his own.
He that builds by the wayside has many masters.
He that buyeth magistracy must sell justice.
He that buys what he does not want, must often sell what he does want.
He that, by often arguing against his own
sense, imposes falsehoods on others, is not far from believing them himself.
He that by the plough would thrive, / Himself must either hold or drive.
He that by usury and unjust gain increaseth his substance, he shall gather it for him that will pity the poor.
He that can be patient has his foe at his feet.
He that can be won with a feather will be lost with a straw.
He that can conceal his joys is greater than he
who can hide his griefs.
He that can define, he that can answer a question so as to admit of no further answer, is the best man.
He that can discriminate is the father of his father.
He that can endure / To follow with allegiance a fall'n lord, / Does conquer him that did his master conquer, / And earns a place i' the story.
He that can heroically endure adversity will bear prosperity with equal greatness of soul; for the mind that cannot be dejected by the former is not likely to be transported by the latter.
He that can write a true book to persuade
England, is not he the bishop and archbishop, the primate of England and of all England?
He that cannot be the servant of many will never be master, true guide, and deliverer of many.
He that cannot keep his mind to himself cannot practise any considerable thing whatever.
He that cannot pay in purse must pay in person.
He that ceases to be a friend never was a good one.
He that claims, either in himself or for another,
the honours of perfection will surely injure the reputation which he designs to assist.
He that climbs the tall tree has won a right to the fruit: / He that leaps the wide gulf should prevail in his suit.
He that comes unca'd
He that cometh to seek after knowledge with a mind to scorn and censure, shall be sure to find matter for his humour, but none for his instruction.
He that complies against his will, / is of the same opinion still.
He that conquers himself conquers an enemy.
He that cuts himself wilfully deserves no salve.
He that defers his charity until he is dead is, if a man weighs it rightly, rather liberal of another man's goods than his own.
He that descends not to word it with a shrew does worse than beat her.
He that deserves nothing should be content with anything.
He that dies, pays all debts.
He that does a base thing in zeal for his friend burns the golden thread that ties their hearts together.
He that does not knot his thread will lose his first stitch.
He that does not know those things which are of use and necessity for him to know, is but an ignorant man, whatever he may know besides.
He that does what he can, does what he ought.
He that does you a very ill turn will never forgive you.
He that doeth evil hateth the light.
He that doeth truth cometh to the light.
He that doth not plough at home won't plough abroad.
He that doth the ravens feed, / Yea, providently caters for the sparrow, / Be comfort to my age.
He that eats longest lives longest.
He that endureth is not overcome.
He that, ever following her (Duty's) commands, / On with toil of heart and knees and hands, / Thro' the long gorge to the far light has won / His path upward, and prevail'd, / Shall find the toppling crags of Duty scaled, / Are close upon the shining tablelands / To which our God Himself is moon and sun.
He that falls into sin, is a man; that grieves at it, is a saint; that boasteth of it, is a devil; yet some glory in that shame, counting the stains of sin the best complexion of their souls.
He that feareth is not made perfect in love.
He that fights and runs away / May live to fight another day.
He that filches from me my good name / Robs
me of that which not enriches him, / And makes me poor indeed.
He that finds something before it is lost will die before he falls ill.
He that flees not will be fled from.
He that gallops his horse on Blackstone edge / May chance to catch a fall.
He that gets gear
He that gets patience, and the blessing which /
Preachers conclude with, hath not lost his pains.
He that gives to the poor lends to the Lord.
He that goes a-borrowing goes a-sorrowing.
He that goes softly goes safely.
He that grasps at too much holds nothing fast.
He that has a head of wax should not walk in
the sun.
He that has a head will not want a hat.
He that has a wife has a master.
 (re
He that has an ill wife likes to eat butter
He that has been taught only by himself has
had a fool for a master.
He that has just enough can soundly sleep; / The o'ercome only fashes fowk to keep.
He that has light within his own clear breast may sit in the centre and enjoy bright day.
He that has lost his faith, what staff has he left?
He that has muckle would aye hae mair.
He that has no head needs no hat.
He that has no sense at thirty will never have any.
He that has no shame has no conscience.
He that has siller in his purse canna want
a head on h
He that has to choose has trouble.
He that hateth gifts shall live.
He that hath a beard is more than a youth, and he that hath no beard is less than a man.
He that hath a satirical vein, as he maketh others afraid of his wit, so he hath need to be afraid of others' memory.
He that hath a trade hath an estate, and he that hath a calling hath an office of profit and honour.
He that hath a wife and children hath given hostages to fortune; for they are impediments to great enterprises, either of virtue or mischief.
He that hath but gained the title of a jester,
let him assure himself the fool is not far off.
He that hath care of keeping days of payment is lord of another man's purse.
He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
He that hath gained an entire conquest over himself will find no mighty difficulties to subdue all other opposition.
He that hath knowledge spareth his words.
He that hath mercy on the poor, happy is he.
He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down and without walls.
He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth to the Lord.
He that hath sense hath strength.
He that hears much and speaks not at all, / Shall be welcome both in bower and hall.
He that high growth on cedars did bestow, /
Gave also lowly mushrooms leave to grow.
He that hinders not a mischief is guilty of it.
He that humbles himself shall be exalted.
He that imposes an oath makes it, / Not he that for convenience takes it.
He that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.
He that invented the Maiden, first hanselled it
He that is a friend to himself is a friend to all men.
He that is born of a hen must scrape for a living.
He that is courteous at all, will be courteous to all.
He that is discontented and troubled is tossed with divers suspicions; he is neither quiet himself, nor suffereth others to be quiet.
He that is doing nothing is seldom without helpers.
He that is down needs fear no fall; / He that
is low no pride.
He that is down, the world cries "Down with him!"
He that is embarked with the devil must sail with him.
He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much; and he that is unjust in the least, is unjust also in the much.
He that is full of himself is very empty.
He that is ill to himself will be good to nobody.
He that is not against us is on our part.
He that is not handsome at twenty, strong at thirty, rich at forty, nor wise at fifty, will never be handsome, strong, wise, or rich.
He that is not open to conviction is not qualified for discussion.
He that is not with me is against me.
He that is of a merry heart hath a continual
feast.
He that is proud eats up himself; pride is his own glass, his own trumpet, his own chronicle; and whatever praises itself but in the deed devours the deed in the praise.
He that is robb'd, not wanting what is stolen, / Let him not know 't, and he's not robb'd at all.
He that is ready to slip is as a lamp despised in the thought of him that is at ease.
He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit, than he that taketh a city.
He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding.
He that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man.
He that is surety for another, is never sure himself.
He that is the inferior of nothing can be the superior of nothing, the equal of nothing.
He that is tied with one slender string, such as one resolute struggle would break, is prisoner only to his own sloth; and who would pity his thraldom?
He that is to-day a king, to-morrow shall die.
He that is violent in the pursuit of pleasure won't mind to turn villain for the purchase.
He that is well-ordered and disposed within himself careth not for the strange and perverse behaviour of men.
He that keeks
He that keepeth his way preserveth his soul.
He that kills a man when he is drunk must be
hanged for it when he is sober.
He that knoweth not that which he ought to know, is a brute beast among men; he that knoweth no more than he hath need of, is a man among brute beasts; and he that knoweth all that may be known, is a god amongst men.
He that knows a little of the world will admire it enough to fall down and worship it; he that knows it most will most despise it.
He that knows, and knows not that he knows, is asleep. Arouse him.
He that knows, and knows that he knows, is wise. Follow him.
He that knows is strong.
He that knows not, and knows not that he knows not, is stupid. Shun him.
He that knows not, and knows that he knows not, is good. Teach him.
He that lacks time to mourn lacks time to mend.
He that lies down with dogs will rise up with fleas.
He that lives in perpetual suspicion lives the
life of a sentinel, of a sentinel never relieved.
He that lives longest sees most.
He that lives must grow old; and he that would rather grow old than die, has God to thank for the infirmities of old age.
He that lives upon hopes will die fasting.
He that lives with cripples learns to limp.
He that lives with wolves will learn to howl.
He that loses his conscience has nothing left that is worth keeping.
He that loves Christianity better than truth will soon love his own sect or party better than Christianity.
He that loves God aright must not desire that God should love him in return
He that loveth a book will never want a faithful friend, a wholesome counsellor, a cheerful companion, an effectual comforter.
He that loveth danger shall perish therein.
He that loveth father and mother more than me is not worthy of me.
He that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he love God, whom he hath not seen?
He that loveth pleasure shall be a poor man.
He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loveth abundance with increase.
He that maketh haste to be rich shall not be
innocent.
He that marries before he is wise will die before he thrive.
He that marries for money sells his liberty.
He that meddleth with strife belonging not to him is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.
He that needs five thousand pound to live, / Is full as poor as he that needs but five.
He that never thinks can never be wise.
He that observeth the wind shall not sow;
and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap.
He that on pilgrimages goeth ever, / Becometh holy late or never.
He that oppresseth the poor to increase his riches, and he that giveth to the rich, shall surely come to want.
He that pities another minds himsel'.
He that prieth in at her windows shall also hearken at her doors.
He that promises too much means nothing.
He that purposes to be happy by the affection or acquaintance of the best, the greatest man alive, will always find his mind unsettled and perplexed.
He that questioneth much will learn much.
He that revels in a well-chosen library has innumerable dishes, and all of admirable flavour.
He that ruleth among men must be just, ruling in the fear of God.
He that runs in the dark may well stumble.
He that runs may read.
He that seeks others to beguile, / Is oft o'ertaken in his own wile.
He that seeks to have many friends never has any.
He that serves the altar should live by the altar.
He that shuts his eyes against a small light
would not be brought to see that which he had no mind to see, let it be placed in never so clear a light and never so near him.
He that sows in the highway loses his corn.
He that sows iniquity shall reap sorrow.
He that spares the bad injures the good.
He that spares the rod spoils the child.
He that speaks the thing he should not / Must
often hear the thing he would not.
He that speaks the truth will find himself in sufficiently dramatic situations.
He that spends his gear
He that stands upon a slippery place / Makes nice of no vain hold to stay him up.
He that steals a preen
He that steals for others will be hanged for
himself.
He that strikes with the sword shall perish by the sword.
He that studieth revenge keepeth his own wounds green.
He that takes away reason to make way for revelation puts out the light of both.
He that talks deceitfully for truth must hurt it more by his example than he promotes it by his arguments.
He that talks much errs much.
He that talks much lies much.
He that tholes
He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread.
He that turns not from every sin, turns not aright from any one sin.
He that undervalues himself will undervalue
others, and he that undervalues others will oppress them.
He that voluntarily continues ignorant is guilty of all the crimes which ignorance produces.
He that waits long at the ferry will get over some time.
He that walketh uprightly walks surely.
He that walketh with wise men shall be wise; but a companion of fools shall be destroyed.
He that wants good sense is unhappy in having
learning, for he has thereby only more ways of exposing himself; and he that has sense knows that learning is not knowledge, but rather the art of using it.
He that wants money, means, and content is without three good friends.
He that will be angry for anything will be angry for nothing.
He that will believe only what he can fully comprehend must have a very long head or a very short creed.
He that will carry nothing about him but gold will be every day at a loss for readier change.
He that will have his son have a respect for
him must have a great reverence for his son.
He that will lose his friend for a jest, deserves to die a beggar by the bargain.
He that will love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no guile.
He that will not reason is a bigot; he that cannot, is a fool; and he that dare not, is a slave.
He that will not when he may, / When he will he shall have nay.
He that will not work shall not eat.
He that will to Cupar, maun to Cupar
He that will watch Providence will never want a Providence to watch.
He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow.
He that winna be counselled canna be helped.
He that winna save a penny will ne'er hae
ony.
He that won't plough at home won't plough abroad.
He that would be rich in a year will be hanged in half a year.
He that would be singular in his apparel had need of something superlative to balance that affectation.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of the hens.
He that would have his virtue published is not the servant of virtue, but of glory.
He that would live in peace and rest / Must hear, and see, and say the best.
He that would reap well must sow well.
He that would reckon up all the accidents preferments depend upon, may as well undertake to count the sands or sun up infinity.
He that would relish success to purpose should keep his passion cool and his expectation low.
He that would reproach an author for obscurity should look into his own mind to see whether it is quite clear there. In the dusk the plainest writing is illegible.
He that wrestles with us strengthens our nerves and sharpens our skill.
He that wrongs his friend / Wrongs himself
more, and ever bears about / A silent court of justice in his breast, / Himself the judge and jury, and himself / The prisoner at the bar, ever condemned.
He the cross who longest bears / Finds his sorrow's bounds are set.
He thinks no evil who means no evil.
He thinks too much; such men are dangerous.
He thought as a sage though he felt as a man.
He thought he thought, and yet he did not
think, / But only echoed still the common talk, / As might an empty room.
He thought the World to him was known, / Whereas he only knew the Town; / In men this blunder still you find, / All think their little set--Mankind.
He travels safe and not unpleasantly who is guarded by poverty and guided by love.
He trudged along, unknowing what he sought, / And whistled as he went, for want of thought.
He wants wit that wants resolved will.
He was a bold man that first ate an oyster.
He was a man, take him for all in all, / I shall not look upon his like again.
He was a scholar, and a ripe and good one; / Exceeding wise, fair spoken, and persuading; / Lofty and sour to them that loved him not; / But to those men that sought him, sweet as summer.
He was exhaled; his great Creator drew / His spirit, as the sun the morning dew.
He was my friend, faithful and just to me.
He was not of an age, but for all Time, / Sweet
Swan of Avon.
He was perfumed like a milliner, / And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held / A pouncet-box, which ever and anon / He gave his nose, and took 't away again.
He was scant o' news that told that his father was hanged.
He was the Word that spake it; / He took the bread and brake it; / And what that Word did make it, / I do believe and take it.
He wears his faith but as the fashion of his hat.
He wha eats but
the doctor.
He who asks a favour for another has the confidence which a sense of justice inspires; while he who solicits for himself experiences all the embarrassment and shame of one appealing for mercy.
He who avoids the temptation avoids the sin.
He who begins with trusting every one will end with estimating every one a knave.
He who breaks confidence has for ever forfeited it.
He who can at all times sacrifice pleasure to
duty approaches sublimity.
He who can conceal his joys is greater than he who can conceal his griefs.
He who can enjoy the intimacy of the great, and on no occasion disgust them by familiarity or disgrace them by servility, proves that he is as perfect a gentleman by nature as his companions are by rank.
He who cannot bear foes deserves no friend.
He who cannot profit you as a friend may at any time injure you as an enemy.
He who carries his heart on his tongue runs
the risk of expectorating it.
He who ceases to grow greater grows smaller.
He who ceases to pray ceases to prosper.
He who coldly lives to himself and his own will may gratify many a wish, but he who strives to guide others well must be able to dispense with much.
He who combines every defect will be more likely to find favour in the world than the man who is possessed of every virtue.
He who comes up to his own ideal of greatness
must always have had a very low standard of it in his mind.
He who commits injustice is ever made more wretched than he who suffers it.
He who conforms to the rule which the genius of the human understanding whispers secretly in the ear of every new-born being, viz., to test action by thought and thought by action, cannot err; and if he errs, he will soon find himself again in the right way.
He who considers too much will accomplish little.
He who deals with honey will sometimes be licking his fingers.
He who despises mankind will never get the
best out of either others or himself.
He who did well in war just earns the right / To begin doing well in peace.
He who does a good deed is instantly ennobled; he who does a mean deed, is by the action itself contracted.
He who does evil that good may come, pays a toll to the devil to let him into heaven.
He who does me good teaches me to be good.
He who does not advance falls backward.
He who does not expect a million of readers should not write a line.
He who does not help us at the needful moment never helps; he who does not counsel at the needful moment never counsels.
He who does not imagine in stronger and better lineaments, and in stronger and better light than his perishing mortal eye can see, does not imagine at all.
He who does not know foreign languages knows nothing of his own.
He who does not lose his wits over certain
matters has none to lose.
He who does not think too highly of himself is more than he thinks.
He who does nothing for others does nothing for himself.
He who doth not speak an unkind word to his fellow-creatures is master of the whole world to the extremities of the ocean.
He who dwells in temporary semblances and does not penetrate into the eternal substance, will not answer the sphinx-riddle of to-day or of any day.
He who enquires into a matter has often
found more at a glance than he wished to find.
He who entereth uncalled for, unquestioned speaketh much, and regardeth himself with satisfaction, to his prince appeareth one of a weak judgment.
He who esteems trifles for themselves is a trifler; he who esteems them for the conclusions he draws from them or the advantage to which they can be put, is a philosopher.
He who exercises wisdom exercises the knowledge which is about God.
He who fears not death fears not threats.
He who fears nothing is not less powerful than
he whom all fear.
He who feeds the ravens / Will give His children bread.
He who feels he is right is stronger than king's hosts; he who doubts he is not right has no strength whatever.
He who finds a God in the physical world will also find one in the moral, which is History.
He who formeth a connection with an honest man from his love of truth, will not suffer thereby.
He who gives up the smallest part of a secret
has the rest no longer in his power.
He who goes alone may start to-day; but he who travels with another must wait till that other is ready.
He who has a bonnie wife needs mair than twa een.
He who has a thousand friends has not a friend to spare, / And he who has one enemy will meet him everywhere.
"He who has been born has been a first man," has had lying before his young eyes, and as yet unhardened into scientific shapes, a world as plastic, infinite, divine, as lay before the eyes of Adam himself.
He who has been once very foolish will never
be very wise.
He who has done enough for the welfare
of his own time has lived for a
He who has imagination without learning has wings without feet.
He who has less than he desires should know that he has more than he deserves.
He who has lost confidence can lose nothing more.
He who has love in his heart has spurs in his
heels.
He who has made no mistakes in war has never made war.
He who has most of heart knows most of sorrow.
He who has no ear for poetry is a barbarian, be he who he may.
He who has no opinion of his own, but depends upon the opinion and taste of others, is a slave.
He who has no passions has no principle, nor
motive to act.
He who has no vision of Eternity will never get a true hold of Time.
He who has no wish to be happier is the happiest of men.
He who has not been a servant cannot become a praiseworthy master; it is meet that we should plume ourselves rather on acting the part of a servant properly than that of the master, first towards the laws, and next towards our elders.
He who has not known poverty, sorrow, contradiction, and the rest, and learned from them the priceless lessons they have to teach, has missed a good opportunity of schooling.
He who has not the weakness of friendship
has not the strength.
He who has nothing to boast of but his ancestry is like a potato; the only good belonging to him is underground.
He who has published an injurious book sins in his very grave, corrupts others while he is rotting himself.
He who has reason and good sense at his command needs few of the arts of the orator.
He who imitates what is evil always exceeds; he who imitates what is good always falls short.
He who in any way shows us better than we
knew before that a lily of the fields is beautiful, does he not show it us as an effluence of the fountain of all beauty--as the handwriting, made visible there, of the great Maker of the universe?
He who indulges his senses in any excesses renders himself obnoxious to his own reason; and, to gratify the brute in him, displeases the man, and sets his two natures at variance.
He who, in opposition to his own happiness, delighteth in the accumulation of riches, carrieth burdens for others and is the vehicle of trouble.
He who intends to be a great man ought to love neither himself nor his own things, but only what is just, whether it happens to be done by himself or by another.
He who is a fool and knows it is not very far from being a wise man.
He who is conscious of guilt cannot bear the
innocence of others: he tries to reduce other characters to his own level.
He who is deficient in the art of selection may, by showing nothing but the truth, produce all the effect of the grossest falsehood. It perpetually happens that one writer tells less truth than another, merely because he tells more truth.
He who is destitute of principles is governed, theoretically and practically, by whims.
He who is firm in his will moulds the world to himself.
He who is good has no kind of envy.
He who is in disgrace with the sovereign is
disrespected by all.
He who is lord of himself, and exists upon his own resources, is a noble but a rare being.
He who is most slow in making a promise is the most faithful in the performance of it.
He who is moved to tears by every word of a priest is generally a weakling and a rascal when the feeling evaporates.
He who is not possessed of such a book as will dispel many doubts, point out hidden treasures, and is, as it were, a mirror of all things, is even an ignorant man.
He who is of no use to himself is of no use to
any one.
He who is one with himself is everything.
He who is only half instructed speaks much, and is always wrong; he who knows it wholly, is content with acting, and speaks seldom or late.
He who is only just is stern; he who is only wise lives in gloom.
He who is servant to
 
He who is suave with all
gets on with none: he pleases no one who tries to please thousands.
He who is the master of all opinions never can be the bigot of any.
He who is too much afraid of being duped has lost the power of being magnanimous.
He who is weighty is willing to be weighed.
He who is willing to work finds it hard to wait.
He who knows himself well will very soon
learn to know all other men: it is all reflection
He who knows how to sunder jest and earnest is a wise man, and who by cheerful playfulness reinvigorates himself for strenuous diligence.
He who knows not the world, knows not his own place in it.
He who knows right principles is not equal to him who loves them.
He who laughs at crooked men should need walk very straight.
He who laughs can commit no deadly sin.
He who lays out for God lays up for himself.
He who learns and makes no use of his learning is a beast of burden with a load of books.
He who learns the rules of wisdom without conforming to them in his life, is like a man who labours in his fields but does not sow.
He who likes borrowing dislikes paying.
He who lives, and strives, and suffers for others
dear to him, is to be envied; he who lives only for himself is poor.
He who lives to no purpose lives to a bad purpose.
He who lives wisely to himself and his own heart looks at the busy world through the loopholes of retreat, and does not want to mingle in the fray.
He who loses wealth loses much, who loses a friend loses more, who loses his spirits loses all.
He who loves goodness harbours angels, reveres reverence, and lives with God.
He who loves not books before he comes to
thirty years of age will hardly love them enough afterwards to understand them.
He who loves with purity considers not the gift of the lover, but the love of the giver.
He who makes claims
He who makes constant complaint gets little compassion.
He who makes religion his first object makes it his whole object.
He who means to teach others may indeed
often suppress the best of what he knows, but he must not himself be half-instructed.
He who mistrusts humanity is quite as often deceived as he who trusts men.
He who mocks the infant's faith / Shall be mock'd in age and death.
He who never in his life was foolish was never a wise man.
He who obeys is almost always better than he who commands.
He who offers God a second place offers Him
no place.
He who ordained the Sabbath loves the poor.
He who overcomes his egoism rids himself of the most stubborn obstacle that blocks the way to all true greatness and all true happiness.
He who partakes in another's joys is more humane than he who partakes in his griefs.
He who parts with his property before his death may prepare himself for bitter experiences.
He who pleased everybody died before he was born.
He who praises everybody praises nobody.
He who promises runs in debt.
He who reaches the goal receives the crown, and often he who deserves it goes without it.
He who receives a sacrament does not perform a good work; he receives a benefit.
He who reforms himself has done more towards reforming the public than a crowd of noisy impotent patriots.
He who says, "I sought, yet I found not,"
be sure he lies; he who says, "I sought not and found," be sure he deceives; he who says, "I sought and found," him believe--he speaks true.
He who says what he likes must hear what he does not like.
He who scrubs every pig he sees will not long be clean himself.
He who seeks only for applause from without has all his happiness in another's keeping.
He who seeks the truth should be of no country.
He who seeth not the filthiness of evil wanteth
a great foil to perceive the beauty of virtue.
He who sends mouths will send meat.
He who serves God serves a good Master.
He who serves the public serves a fickle master.
He who serves under reason anticipates necessity.
He who speaks sows; he who keeps silence
reaps.
He who spends himself for all that is noble, and gains by nothing but what is just, will hardly be notably wealthy or distressfully poor.
He who stays in the valley will never cross the mountain.
He who steals an egg would steal an ox.
He who strikes terror into others is himself in continual fear.
He who tastes every man's broth often burns
his mouth.
He who tells a lie is not sensible how great a task he undertakes, for he must be forced to invent twenty more to maintain that one.
He who tells the failings of others to you will be ready to tell your failings to others.
He who the sword of Heaven will bear / Should be as holy as severe.
He who thinks for himself, and imitates rarely, is a free man.
He who thinks his place below him will certainly
be below his place.
He who thinks to save anything by his religion besides his soul will be a loser in the end.
He who thinks too much will accomplish little.
He who traces nothing of God in his own soul will never find God in the world of matter--mere circlings of force there of iron regulation, of universal death and merciless indifferency.
He who travels to be amused, or to get somewhat which he does not carry, travels away from himself, and grows old even in youth among old things.
He who trusts a secret to his servant makes
his own man his master.
He who waits for dead men's shoes may go barefoot.
He who wants any help or prop, in addition to the internal evidences of its truth for his belief, never was and never will be a Christian.
He who wants everything must know many things, do many things to procure even a few; different from him whose indispensable knowledge is this only, that a finger will pull the bell!
He who will be great must collect himself; only in restriction does the master show himself.
He who will deaden one half of his nature to
invigorate the other half will become at best a distorted prodigy.
He who will do faithfully needs to believe firmly.
He who will eat the nut must crack it.
He who will not be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock.
He who will sell his fame will also sell the public interest.
He who will work aright must not trouble
himself about what is ill done, but only do well himself.
He who wills all, wills in effect nothing, and brings it to nothing.
He who wishes to secure the good of others has already secured his own.
He who works with symbols merely is a pedant, a hypocrite, and a bungler.
He who would be everywhere will be nowhere.
He who would bring home the wealth of the
Indies must carry the wealth of the Indies with him.
He who would climb the ladder must begin at the bottom.
He who would gather honey must brave the sting of the bees.
He who would gather roses must not fear thorns.
He who would not be frustrate of his hope to write well hereafter in laudable things ought himself to be a true poem.
He who would pry behind the scenes oft sees
a counterfeit.
He who would rule must hear and be deaf, must see and be blind.
He who would write heroic poems must make his whole life a heroic poem.
He whom God has gifted with a love of retirement possesses, as it were, an extra sense.
He whom God steers sails safely.
He whom the inevitable cannot overcome is
unconquerable.
He whom toil has braced or manly play, / As light as air each limb, each thought as clear as day.
He whose actions sink him even beneath the vulgar has no right to those distinctions which should be the reward only of merit.
He whose days are passed away without giving or enjoying, puffing like the bellows of a blacksmith, liveth but by breathing.
He whose goodness is part of himself is what is called a real man.
He whose sympathy goes lowest is the man
from whom kings have the most to fear.
He whose understanding can discern what is, and judge what should or should not be applied to prevent misfortune, never sinketh under difficulties.
He whose word and deed you cannot predict, who answers you without any supplication in his eye, who draws his determination from within, and draws it instantly,--that man rules.
He whose work is on the highway will have many advisers.
He will never have true friends who is afraid of making enemies.
He will never set the Thames on fire.
He would fain fly, but wants wings.
He works hard who has nothing to do.
He wrought all kind of service with a noble ease / That graced the lowliest act in doing it.
He's a blockhead who wants a proof of what he can't perceive, / And he's a fool who tries to make such a blockhead believe.
He's a man who dares to be / Firm for truth
when others flee.
He's a silly body that's never missed.
He's a wise man wha can take care o' himsel'.
He's armed without that's innocent within.
He's idle that may be better employed.
He's looking for the blade o' corn in the stack
o' chaff.
He's most truly valiant / That can wisely suffer the worst that man / Can breathe; and make his wrongs his outsides: / To wear them like his raiment, carelessly, / And ne'er prefer his injuries to his heart, / To bring it into danger.
He's only great who can himself command.
He's well worth
He's wise that's wise in time.
Headstrong liberty is lashed with woe.
Health and cheerfulness mutually beget each other.
Health consists with temperance alone.
Health is better than wealth.
Health is the condition of wisdom, and the sign is cheerfulness--an open and noble temper.
Health is the first of all liberties, and happiness
gives us the energy which is the basis of health.
Health lies in labour, and there is no royal road to it but through toil.
Health, longevity, beauty are other names for personal purity, and temperance is the regimen for all.
Healthy action is always a balance of forces; and all extremes are dangerous; the excess of a good thing being often more dangerous in its social consequences than the excess of what is radically bad.
Hear God, and God will hear you.
Hear it not, Duncan; for it is a knell / That
summons thee to heaven or to hell.
Hear much and speak little; for the tongue is the instrument of the greatest good and the greatest evil that is done in this world.
Hear one side, and you will be in the dark; hear both, and all will be clear.
Hear ye not the hum / Of mighty workings?
Hearsay is half lies.
Hearts are flowers; they remain open to the
softly falling dew, but shut up in the violent downpour of rain.
Hearts are stronger than swords.
Hearts grow warmer the farther you go / Up to the North with its hills and snow.
Hearts may agree though heads differ.
Hearts philanthropic at times have the trick / Of the old hearts of stone.
Heart's-ease is a flower which blooms from
the grave of desire.
Heat and darkness, and what these two may breed.
Heat cannot be separated from fire, or beauty from the eternal.
Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot / That it doth singe yourself.
Heaven and God are best discerned through tears; scarcely, perhaps, are discerned at all without them.
Heaven and yourself / Had part in this fair
maid
Heaven bestows / At home all riches that wise Nature needs.
Heaven doth with us as we with torches do, / Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues / Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike / As if we had them not.
Heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.
Heaven from all creatures hides the book of fate, / All but the page prescribed--their present state.
Heaven has no rage like love to hatred turned, / Nor hell a fury like a woman scorned.
Heaven hath many tongues to talk of it, more eyes to behold it, but few hearts that rightly affect it.
Heaven is above all yet; there sits a Judge /
That no king can corrupt.
Heaven is as near by sea as by land.
Heaven is in thy faith; happiness in thy heart.
Heaven is never deaf but when man's heart is dumb.
Heaven is not always angry when He strikes, / But most chastises those whom most He likes.
Heaven lies about us in our infancy.
Heaven never helps the man that will not act.
Heaven often regulates effects by their causes, and pays the wicked what they have deserved.
Heaven trims our lamps while we sleep.
Heaven, which really in one sense is merciful to sinners, is in no sense merciful to fools, but even lays pitfalls for them and inevitable snares.
Heaven's above all; and there be souls that
must be saved, and there be souls that must not be saved.
Heavens! can you then thus waste, in shameful wise, / Your few important days of trial here? / Heirs of eternity! yborn to rise / Through endless states of being, still more near / To bliss approaching, and perfection clear.
Heaven's eternal wisdom hath decreed that man of man should ever stand in need.
Heaven's fire confounds when fann'd with folly's breath.
Heaven's gates are not so highly arched as princes' palaces; they that enter there must go upon their knees.
Heavens! if privileged from trial, / How cheap
a thing were virtue!
Heaven's Sovereign saves all beings but Himself that hideous sight--a naked human heart.
Heav'n finds an ear when sinners find a tongue.
Heav'n is for thee too high; be lowly wise.
Heav'n is not always got by running.
Heav'n is not day'd. Repentance is not dated.
Hebt mich das Glück, so bin ich froh, / Und sing in dulci jubilo; / Senkt sich das Rad und quetscht mich nieder, / So denk' ich: nun, es hebt sich wieder
Hectora quis nosset, si felix Troja fuisset? / Publica virtuti per mala facta via est
Hectors Liebe stirbt im Lethe nicht
Hedges between keep friendship green.
Hedgerows and Hercules-pillars, however perfect,
are to be reprobated as soon as they diminish the free world of a future man.
Heilig sei dir der Tag; doch schätze das Leben nicht höher / Als ein anderes Gut, und alle Güter sind trüglich
Hei mihi! difficile est imitari gaudia falsa! / Difficile est tristi fingere mente jocum
Hei mihi! qualis erat! quantum mutatus ab illo / Hectore, qui redit, exuvias indutus Achilli
Heitern Sinn und reine Zwecke / Nun, man kommt wohl eine Strecke
"Hélas! que j'en ai vu mourir de jeunes filles"
Hell and destruction are never full, so the eyes of men are never satisfied.
Hell is on both sides of the tomb, and a devil may be respectable and wear good clothes.
Hell is paved with good intentions.
Hell is paved with the skulls of priests.
Hell lies near, / Around us, as does heaven,
and in the world, / Which is our Hades, still the chequered souls, / Compact of good and ill--not all accurst, / Nor altogether blest--a few brief years / Travel the little journey of their lives, / They know not to what end.
Helluo librorum
Help others and seek to avenge no injury.
Help which is long on the road is no help.
Help yourself and your friends will help you.
Helpless mortal! Thine arm can destroy
thousands at once, but cannot enclose even two of thy fellow-creatures at once in the embrace of love and sympathy.
Hence, babbling dreams; you threaten here in vain; / Conscience, avaunt, Richard's himself again.
Her angel's face, / As the great eye of heaven, shined bright, / And made a sunshine in the shady place.
Her eyes are homes of silent prayer.
Her feet, beneath her petticoat, / Like little mice stole in and out, / As if they fear'd the light; / But oh! she dances such a way, / No sun upon an Easter-day / Is half so fine a sight.
Her own person, / It beggar'd all description.
Her sun is gone down while it was yet day.
Her voice was ever soft, / Gentle, and low--an excellent thing in woman.
Hercules himself must yield to odds; / And
many strokes, though with a little axe, / Hew down and fell the hardest-timber'd oak.
Here eyes do regard you / In Eternity's stillness; / Here is all fulness, / Ye brave, to reward you. / Work and despair not.
Here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come.
Here have we war for war, and blood for blood, / Controlment for controlment.
Here I and sorrows sit; / Here is my throne; bid kings come bow to it.
Here I lay, and thus I bore my point.
Here in the body pent, / Absent from Him I roam, / Yet nightly pitch my moving tent / A day's march nearer home.
Here lies Johnny Pigeon! / What was his religion, / Wha e'er desires to ken / To some ither warl' / Maun follow the carl, / For here Johnny Pigeon had nane.
Here lies one whose name was writ in water.
Here lies our sovereign lord the king, / Whose word no man relies on; / He never says a foolish thing, / Nor ever does a wise one.
Here lieth one, believe it if you can, / Who,
though an attorney, was an honest man!
Here, on earth we are as soldiers fighting in a foreign land, that understand not the plan of the campaign, and have no need to understand it, seeing well what is at our hand to be done.
Here or nowhere is America.
Here our souls / Though amply blest, / Can never find, although they seek, / A perfect rest.
Here was a Caesar! when comes such another?
Here's a sigh for those who love me, / And a
smile for those who hate, / And whatever sky's above me, / Here's a heart for every fate.
Hereditary bondsmen! know ye not, / Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow?
Hereditary honours are a noble and a splendid treasure to descendants.
Heroes are much the same, the point's agreed, / From Macedonia's madman to the Swede.
Heroism is an obedience to a secret impulse of an individual's character.
Heroism is the brilliant triumph of the soul
over fear; fear of poverty, of suffering, of calumny, of sickness, of isolation and death.... It is the dazzling and glorious concentration of courage.
Heroism is the self-devotion of genius manifesting itself in action.
Heroism, the Divine relation which, in all times, unites a great man to other men.
Hero-worship exists, has existed, and will for ever exist, universally among mankind.
Herradura que chacotea clavo le falta
Herrenlos ist auch der Freiste nicht
Herrschaft gewinn ich, Eigentum; / Die That ist alles, nichts der Ruhm
Heu melior quanto sors tua sorte meâ!
Heu nihil invitis fas quenquam fidere divis
Heu pietas! Heu prisca fides
Heu! quam difficile est crimen non prodere
vultu!
Heu! quam difficilis gloriæ custodia est!
Heu! quam miserum est ab eo lædi, de quo non ausis queri
Heu quantum fati parva tabella vehit!
Heu! totum triduum!
Heureka
Heureux commencement est la moitié de l'œuvre
Heute muss dem Morgen nichts borgen
Heute roth, Morgen todt
Hi motus animorum atque hæc certamina tanta / Pulveris exigui jactu compressa quiescent
Hiatus maxime deflendus
Hibernicis ipsis hibernior
Hic dies, vere mihi festus, atras / Eximet curas
Hic est aut nusquam quod quærimus
Hic est mucro defensionis tuæ
Hic et nunc
Hic et ubique
Hic finis fandi
Hic funis nihil attraxit
Hic gelidi fontes, hic mollia prata, Lycori, / Hic nemus, hic toto tecum consumerer ævo
Hic hæret aqua!
Hic jacet
Hic locus est partes ubi se via findit in ambas
Hic murus aheneus esto, / Nil conscire sibi, nulla pallescere culpa
Hic niger est; hunc tu, Romane, caveto
Hic nigræ succus loliginis, hæc est / Ærugo
mera
Hic patet ingeniis campus, certusque merenti / Stat favor: ornatur propriis industria donis
Hic Rhodos, hic salta
Hic rogo, non furor est ne moriare mori?
Hic situs est Phaëton currus auriga paterni; / Quem si non tenuit, magnis tamen excidit ausis
Hic transitus efficit magnum vitæ compendium
Hic ubi nunc urbs est, tum locus urbis erat
Hic ver assiduum, atque alienis mensibus æstas
Hic victor cæstus artemque repono
Hic vigilans somniat
Hic vivimus ambitiosa / Paupertate omnes
Hid jewels are but lost.
Hier bin ich Mensch, hier darf ich's sein
Hier ist die Zeit durch Thaten zu beweisen, / Dass Manneswürde nicht der Götterhöhe weicht
Hier ist keine Heimat--Jeder treibt / Sich an dem andern rasch und fremd vorüber, / Und fragt nicht nach seinem Schmerz
Hier sitz' ich auf Rasen mit Veilchen bekränzt
Hier stehe ich! Ich kann nicht anders. Gott helfe mir! Amen
Hier steht einer, der wird mich rächen
High air-castles are cunningly built of words, the words well-bedded in good logic mortar; wherein, however, no knowledge will come to lodge.
High birth is an accident, not a virtue.
High erected thoughts seated in the heart of
courtesy.
High houses are usually empty in the upper storey.
High is the head of the stag on the mountain crag.
High station has to be resigned in order to be appreciated.
Hilarisque tamen cum pondere virtus
Hilft Gott uns nicht, kein Kaiser kann uns
helfen
Hills peep o'er hills; and alps on alps arise.
Hilo y aguja, media vestidura
Him only pleasure leads and peace attends, / Him, only him, the shield of Jove defends, / Whose means are fair and spotless as his ends.
Him who makes chaff of himself the cows will eat.
Hin ist die Zeit, da Bertha spann
Hin ist hin! Verloren ist verloren
Hinc illæ lachrymæ
Hinc lucem et pocula sacra
Hinc omne principium, huc refer exitum
Hinc subitæ mortes atque intestata senectus
Hinc totam infelix vulgatur fama per urbem
Hinc usura vorax, avidumque in tempore fænus, / Et concussa fides, et multis utile bellum
Hinc venti dociles resono se carcere solvunt, / Et cantum accepta pro libertate rependunt
His bark is waur nor
His Christianity was muscular.
His failings lean'd to virtue's side.
His kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch of holy bread.
His imagination resembled the wings of an ostrich. It enabled him to run, though not to soar.
His lachrymis vitam damus, et miserescimus ultro
His legibus solutis respublica stare non potest
His life was gentle, and the elements / So
mix'd in him, that Nature might stand up, / And say to all the world: This was a man!
His nature is too noble for the world; / He would not flatter Neptune for his trident, / or Jove for his power to thunder.
His nunc præmium est, qui recta prava faciunt
His opinion who does not see spiritual agency in history is not worth any man's reading.
His own character is the arbiter of every one's fortune.
His rash, fierce blaze of riot cannot last, / For
violent fires soon outburn themselves.
His saltem accumulem donis, et fungar inani munere
His speech was like a tangled chain; / Nothing impaired, but all disordered.
His thoughts look through his words.
His time is for ever, everywhere his place.
His tongue could make the worse appear the
better reason.
His tongue / Dropp'd manna, and could make the worse appear / The better reason, to perplex and dash / Maturest counsels.
His very foot has music in 't, / As he comes up the stair.
His wit invites you by his looks to come, / But when you knock, it never is at home.
His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles.
Historia quo quomodo scripta delectat
Histories are as perfect as the historian is wise, and is gifted with an eye and a soul.
Histories make men wise; poets, witty; the mathematics, subtle; natural philosophy, deep; morals, grave; logic and rhetoric, able to contend.
History and experience prove that the most passionate characters are the most fanatically rigid in their feelings of duty, when their passion has been trained to act in that direction.
History, as it lies at the root of all science, is also the first distinct product of man's spiritual nature, his earliest expression of what may be called thought.
History ensures for youth the understanding
of the ancients.
History has only to do with what is true, and what is only probable should be relegated to the imaginary domain of romance and poetical fiction.
History is a cyclic poem written by Time upon the memories of man.
History is always written
History is an impertinence and an injury, if it be anything more than a cheerful apologue or parable of my being and becoming.
History is an imprisoned epic, nay, an imprisoned
psalm and prophecy.
History is but a fable agreed on.
History is but the unrolled scroll of prophecy.
History is indeed little more than the register of the crimes, follies, and misfortunes of mankind.
History is like sacred writing, for truth is essential to it.
History is made up of the bad actions of
extraordinary men. All the most noted destroyers and deceivers of our species, all the founders of arbitrary governments and false religions, have been extraordinary men, and nine-tenths of the calamities which have befallen the human race had no other origin than the union of high intelligence with low desires.
History is only a confused heap of facts.
History is philosophy teaching by examples.
History is properly nothing but a satire on mankind.
History is the true poetry.
History shows that the majority of the men
who have done anything great have passed their youth in seclusion.
History teems with instances of truth put down by persecution; if not suppressed for ever, it may be thrown back for centuries.
Hitch your waggon to a star.
Hitherto all miracles have been wrought by thought, and henceforth innumerable will be wrought; whereof we, even in these days, witness some.
Hitherto doth love on fortune tend; / For who not needs, shall never lack a friend; / And who in want a hollow friend doth try, / Directly seasons him his enemy.
Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further; and
here shall thy proud waves be stayed.
Hizonos Dios, y maravillámonos nos
Hobbes clearly proves that every creature / Lives in a state of war by nature.
"Hoc age" is the great rule, whether you are serious or merry; whether ... learning science or duty from a folio, or floating on the Thames. Intentions must be gathered from acts.
Hoc age
Hoc erat in more majorum
Hoc erat in votis; modus agri non ita magnus; / Hortus ubi, et tecto vicinus juris aquæ fons, / Et paulum silvæ super his foret
Hoc est quod palles? cur quis non prandeat, hoc est?
Hoc est / Vivere bis, vita posse priore frui
Hoc fonte derivata clades, / In patriam, populumque fluxit
Hoc genus omne
Hoc Herculi Iovis satu edito' potuit fortasse contingere, nobis non item
Hoc loco
Hoc maxime officii est, ut quisquis maxime opus indigeat, ita ei potissimum opitulari
Hoc opus, hic labor est
Hoc patrium est, potius consuefacere filium /
Sua sponte recte facere, quam alieno metu
Hoc pretium ob stultitiam fero
Hoc scito, nimio celerius / Venire quod molestum est, quam id quod cupide petas
Hoc signo vinces
Hoc virtutis opus
Hoc volo, hoc jubeo; sit pro ratione voluntas
Hodie mihi, cras tibi
Hodie nihil, cras credo
Hodie vivendum amissa præteritorum cura
Hoi polloi
Hoist up the sail while gale doth last--/ Tide
and wind wait no man's pleasure! / Seek not time when time is past--/ Sober speed is wisdom's leisure!
Hold all the skirts of thy mantle extended when heaven is raining gold.
Hold the living dear and honour the dead.
Hold their farthing candle to the sun.
Hold thou the good; define it well.
Hold up thy head; the taper lifted high /
Will brook the wind when lower tapers die.
Holy fields, / Over whose acres walked those blessed feet / Which fourteen hundred years ago were nail'd, / For our advantage, on the bitter cross.
Holy men at their death have good inspirations.
Hombre de barba
Hombre pobre todo es trazas
Home, in one form or another, is the great
object of life.
Home is heaven for beginners.
Home is home, be it never so homely.
Home is the place of Peace; the shelter, not only from all injury, but from all terror, doubt, and division.
Home should be an oratorio of the memory, singing to all our after life melodies and harmonies of old-remembered joy.
Home, the nursery of the infinite.
Home-keeping youth have ever homely wits.
Homer's Epos has not ceased to be true; yet is no longer our Epos, but shines in the distance, if clearer and clearer, yet also smaller and smaller, like a receding star. It needs a scientific telescope, it needs to be reinterpreted and artificially brought near us, before we can so much as know that 'twas a sun.... For all things, even celestial luminaries, much more atmospheric meteors, have their rise, their culmination, their decline.
Homine imperito nunquam quidquam injustius / Qui, nisi quod ipse fecit, nihil rectum putat
Hominem non odi sed ejus vitia
Hominem pagina nostra sapit
Hominem quæro
Homines ad deos nulla re propius accedunt quam salutem hominibus dando
Homines amplius oculis quam auribus credunt: longum iter est per præcepta, breve et efficax per exempla
Homines nihil agendo discunt male agere
Homines plus in alieno negotio videre, quam
in suo
Homines proniores sunt ad voluptatem, quam ad virtutem
Homines, quo plura habent, eo cupiunt ampliora
Homini necesse est mori
Homini ne fidas nisi cum quo modium satis absumpseres
Hominibus plenum, amicis vacuum
Hominis est errare, insipientis perseverare
Hominum sententia fallax
Homme assailli à demi vaincu
Homme chiche jamais riche
Homme d'affaires
Homme d'esprit
Homme d'état
Homme d'honneur
Homme instruit
Homo ad res perspicacior Lynceo vel Argo, et oculeus totus
Homo antiqua virtute ac fide
Homo constat ex duabus partibus, corpore et anima, quorum una est corporea, altera ab omni materiæ concretione sejuncta
Homo doctus in se semper divitias habet
Homo extra est corpus suum cum irascitur
Homo fervidus et diligens ad omnia paratur
Homo homini aut deus aut lupus
Homo is a common name to all men.
Homo multarum literarum
Homo multi consilii et optimi
Homo nullius coloris
Homo qui erranti comiter monstrat viam, / Quasi lumen de suo lumine accendit, facit; / Nihilominus ipsi luceat, cum illi accenderit
Homo solus aut deus aut demon
Homo sum, et nihil humani a me alienum puto
Homo toties moritur, quoties amittit suos
Homo trium literarum
Homo unius libri
Homunculi quanti sunt, cum recogito
Honest labour bears a lovely face.
Honest men marry soon, wise men never.
Honesta mors turpi vita potior
Honesta paupertas prior quam opes malæ
Honesta quædam scelera successus facit
Honesta quam splendida
Honestum non est semper quod licet
Honestum quod vere dicimus, etiamsi a nullo laudatur, laudabile est sua natura
Honesty is like an icicle; if it once melts, that is the last of it.
Honesty is the best policy.
Honesty is the poor man's pork and the rich man's pudding.
Honesty may be dear bought, but can ne'er be
an ill pennyworth.
Honi soit qui mal y pense
Honnêtes gens
Honneur et patrie
Honor Deo
Honor est præmium virtutis
Honor fidelitatis præmium
Honor sequitur fugientem
Honores mutant mores
Honos alit artes, omnesque incenduntur ad studia gloria
Honour a physician with the honour due unto
him for the uses which ye may have of him, for the Lord hath created him.
Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king.
Honour and ease are seldom bedfellows.
Honour hath no skill in surgery.... Honour is a mere scutcheon.
Honour is nobler than gold.
Honour is not a virtue in itself; it is the mail
behind which the virtues fight more securely.
Honour is unstable, and seldom the same; for she feeds upon opinion, and is as fickle as her food.
Honour is venerable to us because it is no ephemeris.
Honour to whom honour is due.
Honour travels in a strait so narrow, / Where one but goes abreast.
Honour won't patch.
Honourable
and implies much more than most people attach to it.
Honours, like impressions upon coin, may give an ideal and local value to a bit of base metal; but gold and silver will pass all the world over, without any other recommendation than their own weight.
Honours to one in my situation are something like ruffles to a man that wants a shirt.
Honour's the moral conscience of the great.
Honteux comme un renard qu'une poule aurait pris
Hope deferred maketh the heart sick.
Hope is a curtail dog in some affairs.
Hope is a good anchor, but it needs something to grip.
Hope is a lover's staff; walk hence with that, / And manage it against despairing thoughts.
Hope is a pleasant acquaintance but an unsafe friend. He'll do on a pinch for your travelling companion, but he's not the man for your banker.
Hope is a waking man's dream.
Hope is itself a species of happiness, and perhaps the chief happiness which this world affords; but, like all other pleasures, its excesses must be expiated by pain; and expectations improperly indulged must end in disappointment.
Hope is not the man for your banker, though he may do for your travelling companion.
Hope is the best part of our riches.
Hope is the only good which is common to all men.
Hope is the ruddy morning ray of joy, recollection
is its golden tinge; but the latter is wont to sink amid the dews and dusky shades of twilight, and the bright blue day which the former promises breaks indeed, but in another world and with another sun.
Hope never comes that comes to all.
Hope never spread her golden wings but in unfathomable seas.
Hope not wholly to reason away your troubles; but do not feed them with attention, and they will die imperceptibly away.
Hope, of all ills that men endure, / The only cheap and universal cure.
Hope springs eternal in the human breast; /
Man never is, but always to be, blest.
Hope springs exulting on triumphant wing.
Hope thou not much, and fear thou not at all.
Hope to joy is little less in joy / Than hope enjoyed.
Hoping and waiting is not my way of doing things.
Hora e sempre
Horæ cedunt, et dies, et menses, et anni, nec præteritum tempus unquam revertitur
Horæ / Momento cita mors venit, aut victoria læta
Horas non numero nisi serenas
Horrea formicæ tendunt ad inania nunquam; / Nullus ad amissas ibit amicus opes
Horresco referens
Horribile dictu
Horror ubique animos, simul ipsa silentia terrent
Horror vacui
Hors de combat
Hors de propos
Hortus siccus
Hos successus alit; possunt quia posse videntur
Hospice d'accouchement
Hospice d'allaitement
Hospitality must be for service, not for show,
or it pulls down the host.
Hostis est uxor invita quæ ad virum nuptum datur
Hostis honori invidia
Hôtel de ville
Hôtel Dieu
Household words.
Housekeeping without a wife is a lantern without a light.
Houses are built to live in, and not to look on.
How are riches the means of happiness? In acquiring they create trouble, in their loss they occasion sorrow, and they are the cause of endless divisions amongst kindred!
How beautiful is death, seeing that we die in a world of life and of creation without end!
How beautiful is youth! how bright it gleams, /
With its allusions, aspirations, dreams! / Book of beginnings, story without end, / Each maid a heroine, and each man a friend.
How beautiful to die of a broken heart on paper! Quite another thing in practice! Every window of your feeling, even of your intellect, as it were begrimed, so that no pure ray can enter; a whole drug-shop in your inwards; the foredone soul drowning slowly in a quagmire of disgust.
How bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man's eyes!
How blessed might poor mortals be in the straitest circumstances, if only their wisdom and fidelity to Heaven and one another were adequately great.
How blessings brighten as they take their flight!
How blest the humble cotter's fate! / He woos his simple dearie; / The silly bogles, wealth, and state, / Can never make them eerie.
How can a man be concealed? How can a man be concealed?
How can he be godly who is not cleanly?
How can man love but what he yearns to help?
How can we expect a harvest of thought
who have not had a seed-time of character?
How can we learn to know ourselves? Never by reflection, but only through action. Essay to do thy duty, and thou knowest at once what is in thee.
How charming is divine philosophy!
How creatures of the human kind shut their eyes to the plainest facts, and by the mere inertia of oblivion and stupidity live at ease in the midst of wonders and terrors.
How difficult it is to get men to believe that any other man can or does act from disinterestedness.
How dire is love when one is so tortured; and
yet lovers cannot exist without torturing themselves.
How doth the little busy bee / Improve each shining hour, / And gather honey all the day / From every opening flower.
How dull it is to pause, to make an end, / To rust unburnish'd, not to shine in use, / As though to breathe were life.
How enormous appear the crimes we have not committed!
How far that little candle throws his beams! / So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
How fast has brother followed / From sunshine
to the sunless land.
How few think justly of the thinking few; / How many never think, who think they do!
How foolish and absurd, nay, how hurtful and destructive a vice is ambition, which, by undue pursuit of honour, robs us of true honour!
How forcible are right words!
How fortunate beyond all others is the man who, in order to adjust himself to fate, is not required to cast away his whole preceding life!
How full of briers is this working-day world!
How glorious a character appears when it is penetrated with mind and soul.
How good is man's life, the mere living! how fit to employ / All the heart, and the soul, and the senses for ever in joy!
How happy could I be with either, / Were t'other dear charmer away!
How happy is he born or taught / That serveth not another's will; / Whose armour is his honest thought, / And simple truth his utmost skill.
How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! /
The world forgetting, by the world forgot.
How happy is the prince who has counsellors near him who can guard him against the effects of his own angry passions; their names shall be read in golden letters when the history of his reign is perused.
How happy should we be ... / If we from self could rest, / And feel at heart that One above, / In perfect wisdom, perfect love, / Is working for the best!
How hard it is
whose ear is quick for celestial messages, to "take no counsel with flesh and blood," and instead of living and writing for the day that passes over them, live and write for the eternity that rests and abides over them!
How hardly man the lesson learns, / To smile, and bless the hand that spurns: / To see the blow, to feel the pain, / And render only love again!
How hardly shall they who have riches enter
into the kingdom of God!
How ill white hairs become a fool and a jester.
How indestructibly the good grows, and propagates itself, even among the weedy entanglements of evil!
How is each of us so lonely in the wide bosom of the All?
How is it possible to expect that mankind will take advice, when they will not so much as take warning.
How little do the wantonly or idly officious
think what mischief they do by their malicious insinuations, indirect impertinence, or thoughtless babblings!
How little is the promise of the child fulfilled in the man.
How long halt ye between two opinions?
How long I have lived, how much lived in vain! / How little of life's scanty span may remain! / What aspects old Time in his progress has worn! / What ties cruel fate in my bosom has torn! / How foolish, or worse, till our summit is gain'd! / And downward, how weaken'd, how darken'd, how pain'd!
How many ages hence / Shall this our lofty scene be acted over / In states unborn and accents yet unknown!
How many causes that can plead for themselves
in the courts of Westminster, and yet in the general court of the universe and free soul of man, have no word to utter!
How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false / As stairs of sand, wear yet upon their chins / The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars! / Who, inward searched, have livers white as milk.
How many honest words have suffered corruption since Chaucer's days!
How many illustrious and noble heroes have lived too long by a day!
How many men live on the reputation of the reputation they might have made!
How many people make themselves abstract
to appear profound! The greatest part of abstract terms are shadows that hide a vacuum.
How many things by season season'd are / To their right praise and true perfection!
How many things, just and unjust, have no higher sanction than custom!
How much a dunce that has been sent to roam / Excels a dunce that has been kept at home!
How much better is it to get wisdom than gold! and to get understanding rather to be chosen than silver!
How much better it is to weep at joy than to
joy at weeping!
How much easier it is to be generous than just!
How much lies in laughter, the cipher-key wherewith we decipher the whole man.
How much the wife is dearer than the bride!
How narrow our souls become when absorbed in any present good or ill! It is only the thought of the future that makes them great.
How noble is heroic insight without words in
comparison to the adroitest flow of words without heroic insight!
How noiseless is thought! No rolling of drums, no tramp of squadrons, or immeasurable tumult of baggage-waggons, attends its movements; in what obscure and sequestered places may the head be meditating which is one day to be crowned with more than imperial authority; for kings and emperors will be among its ministering servants; it will rule not over, but in all heads, and bend the world to its will.
How oft do they their silver bowers leave / To come to succour us that succour want!
How one is vexed with little things in this life! The great evils one triumphs over bravely, but the little eat away one's heart.
How paint to the sensual eye what passes in the holy-of-holies of man's soul; in what words, known to these profane times, speak even afar-off of the unspeakable?
How poor are they that have not patience! /
What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
How poor, how rich, how abject, how august, / How complicate, how wonderful is man!
How prone to doubt, how cautious are the wise!
How quick to know, but how slow to put in practice, is the human creature!
How quickly Nature falls into revolt / When gold becomes her object!
How rarely reason guides the stubborn
choice, / Rules the bold hand or prompts the suppliant voice.
How ready some people are to admire in a great man the exception rather than the rule of his conduct! Such perverse worship is like the idolatry of barbarous nations, who can see the noonday splendour of the sun without emotion, but who, when he is in eclipse, come forward with hymns and cymbals to adore him.
How rich a man is, all desire to know, / But none enquire if good he be or no.
How sad a path it is to climb and descend another's stairs!
How science dwindles, and how volumes swell, / How commentators each dark passage shun, / And hold their farthing candle to the sun!
How shall a man escape from his ancestors, or
draw off from his veins the black drop which he drew from his father's or his mother's life?
How shall he give kindling in whose inward man there is no live coal, but all is burnt out to a dead grammatical cinder?
How shall we know whether you are in earnest, if the deed does not accompany the word?
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is / To have a thankless child!
How small a part of time they share / That are so wondrous sweet and fair!
How small, of all that human hearts endure, /
That part which laws or kings can cause or cure! / Still to ourselves, in every place consigned, / Our own felicity we make or find.
How should he be easy who makes other men's cares his own?
How should thy virtue be above the shocks and shakings of temptation, when even the angels kept not their first estate, and man in Paradise so soon fell from innocence?
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night, / Like softest music to attending ears!
How soon "not now" becomes "never!"
How sour sweet music is, when time is broke
and no proportion kept! So is it in the music of men's lives.
How still the evening is, / As hushed on purpose to grace harmony!
How sweet it is to hear one's own convictions from a stranger's mouth!
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank! / Here will we sit and let the sounds of music / Creep in our ears: soft stillness and the night / Become the touches of sweet harmony.
How the sight of means to do ill deeds / Make deeds ill done!
How the world wags!
How they gleam like spirits through the shadows of innumerable eyes from their thrones in the boundless depths of heaven!
How use doth breed habit in a man!
How vainly seek / The selfish for that happiness denied / To aught but virtue!
How we clutch at shadows
as if they were substances, and sleep deepest while fancying ourselves most awake!
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable /
Seem to me all the uses of this world.
How well he's read, to reason against reading!
How were friendship possible? In mutual devotedness to the good and true, otherwise impossible; except as armed neutrality or hollow commercial league.
How wonderful is Death, / Death and his brother Sleep! / One, pale as yonder waning moon, / With lips of lurid blue; / The other, rosy as the morn, / When, throned on ocean's wave, / It blushes o'er the world: / Yet both so passing wonderful.
How wounding a spectacle is it to see those who were by Christ designed for fishers of men, picking up shells on the shore, and unmanly wrangling about them too!
How wretched is the man that hangs on by the favours of the great!
Howe'er it be, it seems to me / 'Tis only noble
to be good. / Kind hearts are more than coronets, / And simple faith than Norman blood.
However, an old song, though to a proverb an instance of insignificance, is generally the only coin a poet has to pay with.
However brilliant an action, it should not be esteemed great unless the result of a great motive.
However far a man goes, he must start from his own door.
However varied the forms of destiny, the same element are always present.
Howsoever thou actest, let heaven be moved
with thy purpose; let the aim of thy deeds traverse the axis of the earth.
Huc propius me, / Dum doceo insanire omnes, vos ordine adite
Huic maxime putamus malo fuisse nimiam opinionem ingenii atque virtutis
Huic versatile ingenium sic pariter ad omnia fuit, ut natum ad id unum diceres, quodcunque ageret
Human action is a seed of circumstances
scattered in the dark land of the future and hopefully left to the powers that rule human destiny.
Human beliefs, like all other natural growths,
elude the barriers of system.
Human brutes, like other beasts, find snares and poison in the provisions of life, and are allured by their appetites to their destruction.
Human courage should rise to the height of human calamity.
Human creatures will not go quite accurately together, any more than clocks will.
Human felicity is lodged in the soul, not in the flesh.
Human intellect, if you consider it well, is the
exact summary of human worth.
Human judgment is finite, and it ought always to be charitable.
Human knowledge is the parent of doubt.
Human life is a constant want, and ought to be a constant prayer.
Human life is everywhere a state in which much is to be endured and little to be enjoyed.
Human life is more governed by fortune than
by reason.
 (_nou
Human nature in its fulness is necessarily human; without love, it is inhuman; without inhuman.
Human nature ... / Is not a punctual presence, but a spirit / Diffused through time and space.
Human nature
we owe to education.
Human reason is like a drunken man on horseback; set it up on one side, and it tumbles over on the other.
Human society is made up of partialities.
Humani nihil alienum
Humanität sei unser ewig Ziel
Humanitati qui se non accommodat, / Plerumque pœnas oppetit superbiæ
Humanity is about the same all the world over.
Humanity is better than gold.
Humanity is constitutionally lazy.
Humanity is great but men are small.
Humanity is never so beautiful as when praying for forgiveness, or else forgiving another.
Humanity is one, and not till Lazarus is cured of his sores will Dives be safe.
Humanity is the virtue of a woman, generosity
of a man.
Humanum amare est, humanum autem ignoscere est
Humanum est errare
Humble wedlock is far better than proud virginity.
Humbleness is always grace, always dignity.
Humiles laborant ubi potentes dissident
Humility disarms envy and strikes it dead.
Humility is a virtue all preach, none practise, and yet everybody is content to hear. The master thinks it good doctrine for his servant, the laity for the clergy, and the clergy for the laity.
Humility is a virtue of so general, so exceeding good influence, that we can scarce purchase it too dear.
Humility is often a feigned submission which we employ to supplant others.
Humility is the altar upon which God wishes that we should offer Him His sacrifices.
Humility is the hall-mark of wisdom.
Humility is the only true wisdom by which we prepare our minds for all the possible vicissitudes of life.
Humility is the solid foundation of all the virtues.
Humility, that low, sweet root / From which
all heavenly virtues shoot.
Humour has justly been regarded as the finest perfection of poetic genius. He who wants it, be his other gifts what they may, has only half a mind; an eye for what is above him, not for what is about him or below him.
Humour is a sort of inverse sublimity, exalting, as it were, into our affections what is below us, while sublimity draws down into our affections what is above us.
Humour is consistent with pathos, while wit is not.
Humour is of a genial quality and is closely allied to pity.
Humour is properly the exponent of low
things; that which first renders them poetical to the mind.
Humour is the mistress of tears.
Humour, warm and all-embracing as the sunshine, bathes its objects in a genial and abiding light.
Hundreds of people can talk for one who can think, but thousands can think for one who can see. To see clearly is poetry, prophecy, and religion all in one.
Hunger and cold betray a man to his enemy.
Hunger is a good cook.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Hunger will break through stone walls.
Hungry bellies have no ears.
Hunt half a day for a forgotten dream.
Hunters generally know the most vulnerable
part of the beast they pursue by the care which every animal takes to defend the side which is weakest.
Hunting was the labour of savages in North America, but the amusement of the gentlemen of England.
Hurtar el puerco, y dar los pies por Dios
Husbands can earn money, but only wives can save it.
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother, / That he might not beteem the winds of heaven / Visit her face too roughly.
Hypotheses non fingo
Hypothesen sind Wiegenlieder, womit der Lehrer seine Schüler einlullt
Hysteron proteron
I am a man / More sinned against than sinning.
I am afraid to think what I have done; / Look
on't again I dare not.
I am always afraid of a fool; one cannot be sure that he is not a knave as well.
I am always as happy as I can be in meeting a man in whose society feelings are developed and thoughts defined.
I am always ill at ease when tumults arise among the mob--people who have nothing to lose.
I am amazed, methinks, and lose my way / Among the thorns and dangers of the world.
I am as free as Nature first made man, / Ere
the base laws of servitude began, / When wild in woods the noble savage ran.
I am black, but I am not the devil.
I am bound to find you in reasons, but not in brains.
I am but a gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff.
I am constant as the northern star, / Of whose true-fix'd and resting quality / There is no fellow in the firmament.
I am convinced that the Bible always becomes
more beautiful the better it is understood, that is, the better we see that every word which we apprehend in general and apply in particular had a proper, peculiar, and immediately individual reference to certain circumstances, certain time and space relations
more beautiful the better it is understood, that is, the better we see that every word which we apprehend in general and apply in particular had a proper, peculiar, and immediately individual reference to certain circumstances, certain time and space relations _i.e._, 
more beautiful the better it is understood, that is, the better we see that every word which we apprehend in general and apply in particular had a proper, peculiar, and immediately individual reference to certain circumstances, certain time and space relations _i.e._,  the spiritual life of the time in which it was written.
I am equally an enemy to a female dunce and a female pedant.
I am fortune's fool.
I am fully convinced that the soul is indestructible, and that its activity will continue through eternity. It is like the sun, which, to our eyes, seems to set in night; but it has in reality only gone to diffuse its light elsewhere.
I am monarch of all I survey, / My right there is none to dispute; / From the centre all round to the sea, / I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
I am more afraid of my own heart than of the
Pope and all his cardinals. I have within me the great pope, self.
I am neither so weak as to fear men, so proud as to despise them, or so unhappy as to hate them.
I am never merry when I hear sweet music.
I am no herald to inquire of men's pedigrees; it sufficeth me if I know their virtues.
I am no orator, as Brutus is; / But as you know me all, a plain blunt man, / That loves my friend.
I am not mad; I would to heaven I were! /
For then 'tis like I should forget myself.
I am not what I am.
I am nothing if not critical.
"I am searching for a man."
I am Sir Oracle, / And when I ope my lips, let no dog bark.
I am sorry to see how small a piece of religion
will make a cloak.
I am very content with knowing, if only I could know.
I am very fond of the company of ladies. I like their beauty; I like their delicacy; I like their vivacity; and I like their silence.
I and time against any two.
I augur better of a youth who is wandering on a path of his own than of many who are walking aright upon paths which are not theirs.
I awoke one morning and found myself famous.
I believe in great men, but not in demigods.
I believe more follies are committed out of complaisance to the world than in following our own inclinations.
I believe there are few persons who, if they please to reflect on their past lives, will not find that had they saved all those little sums which they have spent unnecessarily they might at present have been masters of a competent fortune.
I beseech you, dear brethren, think it possible that you may be wrong.
I bide my time.
I can but trust that good shall fall / At last--far off--at last, to all.
"I can call spirits from the vasty deep." "Why, so can I, or so can any man; but will they come when you do call for them?"
I can count a stocking-top while a man 's getting 's tongue ready; an' when he out wi' his speech at last, there's little broth to be made on't.
I can teach you to command the devil, / And I can teach you to shame the devil, / By telling truth.
I can tell you, honest friend, what to believe:
believe life; it teaches better than book and orator.
I cannot call riches better than the baggage of virtue.... It cannot be spared or left behind, but it hindereth the march.
I cannot hide what I am; I must be sad when I have cause, and smile at no man's jests; eat when I have stomach, and wait for no man's leisure; sleep when I am drowsy, and tend on no man's business; laugh when I am merry, and claw no man in his humour.
I cannot love thee as I ought, / For love reflects the thing beloved; / My words are only words, and move / Upon the topmost froth of thought.
I cannot praise a fugitive and cloistered virtue, unexercised and unbreathed, that never sallies out and seeks her adversary, but slinks out of the race where that immortal garland is to be run for, not without dust and heat.
I cannot think of any character below the
flatterer, except he that envies him.
I can't work for nothing, and find thread.
I care not though the cloth of state should be / Not of rich Arras, but mean tapestry.
I charge thee, fling away ambition; / By that sin fell the angels.
I chatter, chatter, as I flow / To join the brimming river, / For men may come and men may go, / But I go on for ever.
I contented myself with endeavouring to make
your home so easy that you might not be in haste to leave it.
I could a tale unfold, whose lightest word / Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood, / Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres, / Thy knotted and combined locks to part, / And each particular hair to stand on end, / Like quills upon the fretful porcupine.
I could have better spared a better man.
I could not but smile at a woman who makes her own misfortunes and then deplores the miseries of her situation.
I count life just a stuff / To try the soul's strength on.
I cuori fanciulli non vestone a bruno
I danari del comune sono come l'acqua benedetta, ognun ne piglia
I dare do all that may become a man; / Who dares do more, is none.
I dare to be honest, and I fear no labour.
I, demens! et sævas curre per Alpes, / Ut pueris placeas, et declamatio fias
I desire no future that will break the ties of
the past.
I die by the help of too many physicians.
I do but sing because I must, / And pipe but as the linnets sing.
I do know of these / That therefore only are reputed wise / For saying nothing.
I do know, / When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul / Lends the tongue vows.
I do not like "but yet," it does allay / The
good precedence; fie upon "but yet:" / "But yet" is as a jailer to bring forth / Some monstrous malefactor.
I do not love a man who is zealous for nothing.
I do not love thee, Dr. Fell, / The reason why I cannot tell; / But this alone I know full well, / I do not love thee, Dr. Fell.
I do not need philosophy at all.
I do pity unlearned gentlemen on a rainy day.
"I don't care," is a deadly snare.
I earn that I eat, get that I wear; owe no man hate, envy no man's happiness; glad of other men's good, content with my harm.
I esteem that wealth which is given to the worthy, and which is day by day enjoyed; the rest is a reserve for one knoweth not whom.
I fatti sono maschii, le parole femine
I favoriti dei grandi oltre all' oro di regali,
e l'incenso delle lodi, tocca loro anche la mirra della maldicenza
I fear God, and, next to God, I chiefly fear him who fears Him not.
I fear thy nature; / It is too full of the milk of human kindness / To catch the nearest way.
I feel within me a peace above all earthly dignities, a still and quiet conscience.
I find nonsense singularly refreshing.
I for ever pass from hand to hand, / And each
possessor thinks me his own land. / All of them think so, but they all are wrong; / To none but Fortune only I belong.
I found Rome brick, I left it marble.
I gaed a waefu' gate yestreen, / A gate, I fear, I'll dearly rue; / I got my death frae twa sweet een, / Twa lovely een o' bonnie blue.
"I go at last out of this world, where the heart must either petrify or break."
I go through my appointed daily stage, and I care not for the curs who bark at me along the road.
I gran dolori sono muti
I grieve that grief can teach me nothing, nor carry me one step into real nature.
I grudge the dollar, the dime, the cent I give to such men as do not belong to me and to whom I do not belong; (but) there is a class of persons to whom, by all spiritual affinity, I am bought and sold; for them I will go to prison if need be.
I guadagni mediocri empiono la borsa
I had as lief not be, as live to be / In awe of such a thing as I myself.
I had better never see a book than be warped
by its attraction clean out of my own orbit and made a satellite instead of a system.
I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon, / Than such a Roman.
"I had rather be first here than second in Rome."
I had rather be Mercury, the smallest among seven (planets), revolving round the sun, than the first among five (moons) revolving round Saturn.
I had rather believe all the fables in the legends, the Talmud, and the Koran, than that this universal frame is without a mind.
I had rather dwell in the dim fog of superstition
than in air rarified to nothing by the air-pump of unbelief.
I had rather have a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad.
I had rather people laugh at me while they instruct me than praise me without benefiting me.
I hae a penny to spend, / There--thanks to naebody; / I hae naething to lend--/ I'll borrow frae naebody.
I hate a style that slides along like an eel, and never rises to what one can call an inequality.
I hate bungling as I do sin, but particularly
bungling in politics, which leads to the misery and ruin of many thousands and millions of people.
I hate ingratitude more in a man / Than lying, vainness, babbling, drunkenness, / Or any taint of vice whose strong corruption / Inhabits our frail blood.
I have a kind of alacrity in sinking.
I have a very poor opinion of a man who talks to men what women should not hear.
I have all I have ever enjoyed.
I have always been a quarter of an hour
before my time, and it has made a man of me.
I have always despised the whining yelp of complaint, and the cowardly, feeble resolve.
I have always found that the road to a woman's heart lies through her child.
I have been reasoning all my life, and find that all argument will vanish before one touch of Nature.
I have been tempted by opportunity, and seconded by accident.
I have been too much occupied with things
themselves to think either of their beginning or their end.
I have bought / Golden opinions from all sorts of people.
I have ever held it as a maxim never to do that through another which it was possible for me to execute myself.
I have, God wot, a largë field to ear; / And weakë the oxen in my plough.
I have great hope of a wicked man, slender hope of a mean one.
I have known some men possessed of good
qualities which were very serviceable to others, but useless to themselves; like a sun-dial on the front of a house, to inform the neighbours and passengers, but not the owner within.
I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content.
I have little knowledge which I find not some way useful to my highest ends.
I have lost the ring, but I have my finger still.
I have never been able to conquer this ferocious wild beast
I have never seen a greater monster or miracle in the world than myself.
I have no idea of the courage that braves Heaven.
I have no notion of a truly great man that could not be all sorts of men.
I have no other but a woman's reason; / I
think him so because I think him so.
I have no spur / To prick the sides of my intent.
I have no words, / My voice is in my sword.
I have saved the bird in my bosom
I have seen some nations, like overloaded asses, / Kick off their burdens, meaning the higher classes.
I have seldom known any one who deserted
truth in trifles that could be trusted in matters of importance.
I have set my life upon a cast, / And I will stand the hazard of the die.
I have that within which passeth show; / These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
I have this great commission, / From that supernal judge that stirs good thoughts / In any breast of strong authority, / To look into the blots and stains of right.
I have thought some of Nature's journeymen had made men, and not made them well; they imitated humanity so abominably.
I hear, yet say not much, but think the more.
I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality, that it is but a shadow's shadow.
I hold every man a debtor to his profession.
I hold it cowardice / To rest mistrustful where a noble heart / Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love.
I hold it truth, with him who sings / To one clear harp in divers tones, / That men may rise on stepping-stones / Of their dead selves to higher things.
I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano; /
A stage, where every man must play a part, / And mine a sad one.
I hope I don't intrude.
I humbly trust I should not change my opinions and practice, though it rained garters and coronets as the reward of apostasy.
I jouk
As well's I may; / Sworn foe to sorrow, care, or prose, / I rhyme away.
I know but of one solid objection to absolute monarchy; the difficulty of finding any man adequate to the office.
I know enough to hold my tongue, but not
to speak.
I know no evil death can show, which life / Has not already shown to those who live / Embodied longest.
I know no evil so great as the abuse of the understanding and yet there is no one vice more common.
I know no judgment of the future but by the past.
I know nothing sublime which is not some modification of power.
I know only one thing sweeter than making a
book, and that is to project one.
I know that dancin' 's nonsense; but if you stick at everything because its nonsense, you wonna go far in this life.
"I know that it is in me, and out it shall come."
I know that my Redeemer liveth.



I labour, and you get the pearl.
I let every one follow his own bent, that I may be free to follow mine.
I like a good hater.
I live in the crowd of jollity, not so much to enjoy company as to shun myself.
I live not in myself, but I become / Portion of that around me; and to me / High mountains are a feeling.
I look upon an able statesman out of business
like a huge whale, that will endeavour to overturn the ship unless he has an empty cask to play with.
I love a hand that meets mine own with a grasp that causes some sensation.
I love everything that's old--old friends, old tunes, old manners, old books, old wine.
I love God and little children.
I love him not, nor fear him; there's my creed.
I love my friends well, but myself better.
I love sometimes to doubt, as well as to know.
I love / The name of honour more than I fear death.
I love to browse in a library.
I'll make assurance doubly sure, / And take a bond of fate.
I made all my generals out of mud.
I make the most of my enjoyments; and as for my troubles, I pack them in as little compass as I can for myself, and never let them annoy others.
I might have my hand full of truth, and open only my little finger.
I mourn not those who lose their vital breath; / But those who, living, live in fear of death.
I must be cruel, only to be kind.
"I must sleep now."
I must work the work of Him that sent me while it is day; the night cometh when no man can work.
I'm never less at leisure than when at leisure, nor less alone than when alone.
I'm not denyin' the women are foolish; God Almighty made 'em to match the men.
I'm not one of those who can see the cat i' the dairy an' wonder what she's come after.

I'm sure sma' pleasure it can gie, / E'en to a like me, / An' hear us squeel.
I never could believe that Providence had
sent a few men into the world ready booted and spurred to ride, and millions ready saddled and bridled to be ridden.
I never could tread a single pleasure under foot.
I never heard tell of any clever man that came of entirely stupid people.
I never knew a man of letters ashamed of his profession.
I never knew any man grow poor by keeping an orderly table.
I never knew any man in my life who could
not bear another's misfortunes perfectly as a Christian.
I never saw, heard, or read that the clergy were beloved in any nation where Christianity was the religion of the country.
I never whisper'd a private affair / Within the hearing of cat or mouse, / No, not to myself in the closet alone, / But I heard it shouted at once from the top of the house; / Everything came to be known.
I only look straight before me at each day as it comes, and do what is nearest me, without looking further afield.
I picciol cani trovano, ma i grandi hanno la lepre
I pick up favourite quotations and store them
in my mind as ready armour, offensive or defensive, amid the struggle of this turbulent existence. Of these there is a very favourite one from Thomson: "Attach thee firmly to the virtuous deeds / And offices of life; to life itself, / With all its vain and transient joys, sit loose."
I pity men who occupy themselves exclusively with the transitory in things and lose themselves in the study of what is perishable, since we are here for this very end that we may make the perishable imperishable, which we can do only after we have learned how to appreciate both.
I pity the man who can travel from Dan to Beersheba, and cry: 'Tis all barren.
I pounce on what is mine wherever I find it.
I prize the soul that slumbers in a quiet eye.
I quote others only in order the better to
express myself.
I renounce the friend who eats what is mine with me, and what is his own by himself.
I say beware of all enterprises that require new clothes, and not rather a new wearer of clothes.
I say the acknowledgment of God in Christ, / Accepted by thy reason, solves for thee / All questions on the earth and out of it.
I scorn the affectation of seeming modesty to cover self-conceit.
I secundo omine
I see my way as birds their trackless way.
I see that sensible men and conscientious men all over the world are of the one religion of well-doing and daring.
I see thy vanity through the holes of thy coat.
I seek divine simplicity in him who handles things divine.
I seek not to wax great by others' waning.
"I shall go to-morrow," said the king. "You shall wait for me," quoth the wind.
I shall light a candle of understanding in thine heart which shall not be put out.
I shall perhaps tremble in my death-hour, but before shall I never.
I should be glad were all the meadows on the earth left in a wild state, if that were the consequence of men's beginning to redeem themselves.
I stay here on my bond.
I stout and you stout, who will carry the dirt out?
I take it to be a principal rule of life not to be too much addicted to any one thing.
I talk of chalk and you of cheese.
I think a lock and key a security at least equal to the bosom of any friend whatever.
I think it is as scandalous for a woman not
to know how to use a needle as for a man not to know how to use a sword.
I think nothing is to be hoped from you if this bit of mould under your feet is not sweeter to you than any other in this world.
I think sculpture and painting have an effect to teach us manners and abolish hurry.
I think women have an instinct of dissimulation; they know by nature how to disguise their emotions far better than the most consummate male courtiers can do.
I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just.
I very much fear that our little terraqueous
globe is the lunatic asylum of the universe.
I've had my say out, and I shall be th' easier for't all my life.
I've never any pity for conceited people, because I think they carry their comfort about with them.
I've wandered east, I've wandered west, / Through many a weary way; / But never, never can forget / The love of life's young day.
I waive the quantum o' th sin, / The hazard of concealing; / But oh! it hardens a' within, / And petrifies the feeling.
I want that glib and oily art, / To speak and purpose not; since what I well intend, / I'll do't before I speak.
I was not born for courts or great affairs; / I pay my debts, believe, and say my prayers.
I was well, would be better, took physic and died.
I wasted time, and now doth time waste me.
I watch the wheels of Nature's mazy plan, /
And learn the future by the past of man.
I were but little happy if I could say how much.
I will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver / Of my whole course of love.
I will be as harsh as truth and as uncompromising as justice.
I will chide no breather in the world but myself, against whom I know most faults.
I will divide my goods; / Call in the wretch
and slave: / None shall rule but the humble, / And none but toil shall have.
I will get it from his purse or get it from his skin.
I will give thrice as much to any well-deserving friend; but in the way of bargain, mark me, I will cavil on the ninth part of a hair.
I will lay a stone at your door
I will listen to any one's convictions, but pray keep your doubts to yourself; I have plenty of my own.
I will move the world.
I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
I will wear my heart upon my sleeve / For daws to peck at.
I wish there were some cure, like the lover's leap, for all heads of which some single idea has obtained an unreasonable and irregular possession.
I would applaud thee to the very echo, that should applaud again.
I would choose to have others for my acquaintance,
but Englishmen for my friends.
I would condone many things in one-and-twenty now, that I dealt hardly with at middle age. God Himself, I think, is very willing to give one-and-twenty a second chance.
I would desire for a friend the son who never resisted the tears of his mother.
I would fain avoid men; we can give them no help, and they hinder us from helping ourselves.
I would give all my fame for a pot of ale and safety.
I would have been glad to have lived under
my woodside, to have kept a flock of sheep, rather than undertaken such a government as this.
"I"
I would it were bed-time, Hal, and all well.
I would not enter on my list of friends ... the man / Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
I would not for much that I had been born richer.
I would rather be found suffering than doing
what is unjust.
I would rather be the author of one original thought than conqueror of a hundred battles.
I would rather make my name than inherit it.
Ibi omnis / Effusus labor
Ibidem
Ibis, redibis non morieris in bello
Ibit eo quo vis, qui zonam perdidit
Iceland is the finest country on which the sun shines.
Ich bin des trocknen Tons nun satt, / Muss wieder recht den Teufel spielen
Ich bin ein Mensch gewesen, / Und das heisst ein Kämpfer sein
Ich bin es müde, über Sklaven zu herrschen
Ich bin zu alt, um nur zu spielen; / Zu jung, um ohne Wunsch zu sein
Ich denke so: / Was nicht zusammen kann / Bestehen, ist am besten sich zu lösen
Ich dien
Ich finde nicht die Spur, / Von einem Geist, und alles ist Dressur
Ich fühl' ein ganzes Heer in meiner Brust
Ich fühle Mut, mich in die Welt zu wagen / Der Erde Weh, der Erde Glück zu tragen
Ich glaube, dass alles was das Genie, als Genie thut, unbewusst geschieht
"Ich glaube an einen Gott." Das ist ein schönes löbliches Wort; aber Gott anerkennen, wo und wie er sich offenbare, das ist eigentlich die Seligkeit auf Erden
Ich habe es öfters rühmen hören, / Ein Komödiant könnte einen Pfarrer lehren
Ich habe genossen das irdische Glück; / Ich habe gelebt und geliebet
Ich habe gethan, was ich nicht lassen konnte
Ich habe hier bloss ein Amt und keine Meinung
Ich habe nichts als Worte, und es ziemt / Dem edlen Mann, der Frauen Wort zu achten
Ich heisse der reichste Mann in der getauften
Welt: Die Sonne geht in meinem Staat nicht unter
Ich möcht mich gleich dem Teufel übergeben, / Wenn ich nur selbst kein Teufel wär
Ich muss, das ist die Schrank', in welcher mich die Welt, / Von einer, die Natur von andrer Seite hält
Ich schweige zu vielem still; denn ich mag die Menschen nicht irre machen, und bin wohl zufrieden, wenn sie sich freuen, da wo ich mich ärgere
Ich setze die Souveränität fest wie einen eisernen Felsen
Ich singe, wie der Vogel singt, / Der in den
Zweigen wohnet / Das Lied, das aus der Kehle dringt, / Ist Lohn, der reichlich lohnet
Ich stehe in Gottes Hand, und ruh' in Gottes Schooss / Vor ihm fühl' ich mich klein, in ihm fühl' ich mich gross
Ich thue recht und scheue keinen Feind
Ici l'honneur m'oblige, et j'y veux satisfaire
Id arbitror / Adprime in vitâ esse utile, ne quid nimis
Id cinerem, aut manes credis curare sepultos?
Id commune malum; semel insanivimus omnes
Id demum est homini turpe, quod meruit pati
Id est
Id facere laus est quod decet, non quod licet
Id genus omne
Id maxime quemque decet, quod est cujusque maxime suum
Id mutavit, quoniam me immutatum videt
Id nobis maxime nocet, quod non ad rationis lumen sed ad similitudinem aliorum vivimus
Ideals are the world's masters.
Ideals can never be completely embodied in
practice; and yet ideals exist, and if they be not approximated to at all, the whole matter goes to wreck.
Ideas must work through the brains and arms of good and brave men, or they are no better than dreams.
Ideas often flash across our minds more complete than we could make them after much labour.
Idem
Idem quod
Idem velle et idem nolle ea demum firma
amicitia est
Idle folks lack no excuses.
Idle people have the least leisure.
Idleness and pride tax with a heavier hand than kings and parliaments.
Idleness in the midst of unattempted tasks is always proud.
Idleness is an appendix to nobility.
Idleness is many gathered miseries in one name.
Idleness is only the refuge of weak minds and the holiday of fools.
Idleness is the badge of gentry, the bane of body and mind, the nurse of naughtiness, the step-mother of discipline, the chief author of mischief, one of the seven deadly sins, the cushion on which the devil chiefly reposes, and a great cause not only of melancholy, but of many other diseases.
Idleness is the greatest prodigality in the world.
Idleness is the root of all evil.
Idleness is the sepulchre of a living man.
Idleness rusts the mind.
Idolatry is simply the substitution of an "Eidolon," phantasm, or imagination of good for that which is real and enduring, from the highest Living Good which gives life, to the lowest material good which ministers to it.
Idoneus homo
If a barrel-organ in a slum can but drown
a curse, let no Christian silence it.
If a beard were all, the goat would be winner.
If a book come from the heart, it will contrive to reach other hearts.
If a book is worth reading, it is worth buying.
If a cause be good, the most violent attack of its enemies will not injure it so much as an injudicious defence of it by its friends.
If a dog has a man to back him, he will kill a baboon.
If a donkey bray at you, don't bray at him.
If a God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent one.
If a great thing can be done at all, it can be done easily; but it is in that kind of ease with which a tree blossoms after long years of gathered strength.
If a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand.
If a man be born in a stable, that does not make him a horse.
If a man cannot be a Christian in the place
where he is, he cannot be a Christian anywhere.
If a man could bequeath his virtues by will, and settle his sense and learning upon his heirs as certainly as he can his lands, a noble descent would then indeed be a valuable privilege.
If a man deceives me once, shame on him; if he deceives me twice, shame on me.
If a man do not erect in this age his tomb ere he dies, he will live no longer in monument than the bell rings and the widow weeps.
If a man empties his purse into his head, no man can take it from him.
If a man fear or reverence God, he must hate
covetousness; and if he fear or reverence covetousness, he must hate God.
If a man hath too mean an opinion of himself, it will render him unserviceable both to God and man.
If a man have freedom enough to live healthily and work at his craft, he has enough; and so much all can easily obtain.
If a man have not a friend, he may quit the stage.
If a man is not virtuous, he becomes vicious.
If a man knows the right way, he need not
trouble himself about wrong paths.
If a man makes himself a worm, he must not complain when trodden on.
If a man makes me keep my distance, the comfort is he keeps his own at the same time.
If a man once fall, all will tread on him.
If a man read little, he had need of much cunning to seem to know that he doth not.
If a man speaks or acts with a pure thought,
happiness follows him like a shadow that never leaves him.
If a man wishes to become rich, he must appear rich.
If a man with the material of enjoyment around him and virtually within his reach walks God's earth wilfully and obstinately with a gloomy spirit, ... making misery his worship, we feel assured he is contravening his Maker's design in endowing him with life.
If a man would be alone, let him look at the stars.
If a man wound you with injuries, meet him with patience; hasty words rankle the wound, soft language dresses it, forgiveness cures it, and oblivion takes away the scar.
If a man write a book, let him set down only
what he knows. I have guesses enough of my own.
If a man s gaun doun the brae, ilka ane gi'es him a jundie
If a noble soul is rendered tenfold beautifuller by victory and prosperity, an ignoble one is rendered tenfold and a hundredfold uglier, pitifuller.
If a people will not believe, it must obey.
If a pig could give his mind to anything, he wouldn't be a pig.
If a word be worth one shekel, silence is worth
two.
If ae sheep loup
will 
If aged and life-weary men have called to their neighbours: "Think of dying!" we younger and life-loving men may well keep encouraging and reminding one another with the cheerful words: "Think of wandering!"
If all be well within, ... the impertinent censures of busy, envious men will make no very deep impression.
If all dogs on this earth should bark, / It will not matter if you do not hark.
If all the misfortunes of mankind were cast
into a public stock in order to be equally distributed among the species, those who now think themselves the most unhappy would prefer the share they have already to that which would fall to them by such a division.
If all the world were falcons, what of that? / The wonder of the eagle were the less, / But he not less the eagle.
If all the year were playing holidays, / To sport would be as tedious as to work.
If all were rich, gold would be penniless.
If an ass goes a-travelling, he'll not come home a horse.
If an ass kicks me, shall I strike him again?
If an ass looks in, you cannot expect an apostle to look out.
If an idiot were to tell you the same story every day for a year, you would end by believing him.
If any false step be made in the more momentous concerns of life, the whole scheme of ambitious designs is broken.
If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth.
If any man will come after me, let him deny
himself, and take up his cross and follow me.
If any one tells you that a man has changed his character, don't believe it.
If any speak ill of thee, fly home to thy own conscience and examine thy heart. If thou art guilty, it is a fair correction; if not guilty, it is a fair instruction.
If any would not work, neither should he eat.
If blushing makes ugly people so beautiful, ought it not to make the beautiful still more beautiful?
If coals do not burn, they blacken.
If cheerfulness knocks for admission, we should
open our hearts wide to receive it, for it never comes inopportunely.
If children grew up according to early indications, we should have nothing but geniuses.
If cut
talent, so does the colour betoken temper and heart.
If destructive criticism is injurious in anything, it is in matters of religion, for here everything depends upon faith, to which we cannot return when we have once lost it.
If each one does his duty as an individual, and if each one works rightly in his own vocation, it will be well with the whole.
If ever a fool's advice is good, a prudent man
must carry it out.
If every fool wore a crown, we should all be kings.
If everybody knew what one says of the other, there would not be four friends left in the world.
If evil be said of thee, and if it be true, correct thyself; if it be a lie, laugh at it.
If fame is only to come after death, I am in no hurry for it.
If folly were a pain, there would be crying in
every house.
If fortune favour you, be not elated; if she frown, do not despond.
If fortune give thee less than she has done, / Then make less fire, and walk more in the sun.
If fortune would make a man estimable, she gives him virtues; if she would have him esteemed, she gives him success.
If frequent failure convince you of that mediocrity of nature which is incompatible with great actions, submit wisely and cheerfully to your lot.
If friendship is to rob me of my eyes, if it is
to darken the day, I will have none of it.
If fun is good, truth is still better, and love most of all.
If happiness ha'e not her seat / And centre in the breast, / We may be wise, or rich, or great, / But never can be blest.
If heraldry were guided by reason, a plough in a field arable would be the most noble and ancient arms.
If Hercules and Lichas play at dice / Which is the better man, the greater throw / May turn by fortune from the weaker hand; / So is Alcides beaten by his page.
If honour calls, where'er she points the
way, / The sons of honour follow and obey.
If I am anything, which I much doubt, I made myself so merely by labour.
If I am master and you are master, who shall drive the asses?
If I am not worth the wooing, I surely am not worth the winning.
If I am right, Thy grace impart / Still in the right to stay; / If I am wrong, O teach my heart to find the better way.
If I ascend up into heaven, Thou art there; if
I make my bed in hell, behold Thou art there; if I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall Thy hand lead me, and Thy right hand shall hold me.
If I be dear to some one else, / Then I should be to myself more dear.
If I call bad bad, what do I gain? But if I call good bad, I do a great deal of mischief.
If I can catch him once upon the hip, / I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him.

If I choose to take jest in earnest, no one shall put me to shame for doing so; and if I shall be always myself
If I do lose thee
none but fools would keep; a breath thou art, / Servile to all the skyey influences, / That do this habitation, where thou keep'st / Hourly inflict.
If I for my opinion bleed, / Opinion shall be surgeon to my hurt.
If I had read as much as other men, I would have been as ignorant as they are.
If I had wit enough to get out of this wood, I have said enough to serve mine own turn.
If I knew the way of the Lord, truly I would be only too glad to walk in it; if I were led into the temple of truth
I would not, with the hel
go ou
If I lose mine honour, I lose myself.
If I love thee, what is that to thee?
If I'm designed yon lordling's slave, / By Nature's law designed, / Why was an independent wish / E'er planted in my mind?
If I must die, / I will encounter darkness as a bride / And hug it in my arms.
If I seek an interest of my own detached from that of others, I seek an interest which is chimerical, and can never have existence.
If I should say nothing, I should say much
(much being included in my love); though my love be such, that if I should say much, I should yet say nothing, it being, as Cowley says, equally impossible either to conceal or to express it.
If I wish for a horse-hair for my compass-sight, I must go to the stable; but the hair-bird, with her sharp eyes, goes to the road.
If ill thoughts at any time enter into the mind of a good man, he doth not roll them under his tongue as a sweet morsel.

If in the course of our life we see that done by others for which we ourselves at one time felt a vocation, and which we were, with much else, compelled to relinquish, then the noble feeling comes in, that only humanity altogether is the true man, and that the individual can only rejoice and be happy when whole.
If in youth the universe is majestically unveiling, and everywhere heaven revealing itself on earth, nowhere to the young man does this heaven on earth so immediately reveal itself as in the young maiden.
"If" is the only peacemaker--much virtue in "if."
If it be a bliss to enjoy the good, it is still
greater happiness to discern the better; for in art the best only is good enough.
If it be asked, What is the improper expectation which it is dangerous to indulge, experience will quickly answer that it is such expectation as is dictated not by reason but by desire--an expectation that requires the common course of things to be changed, and the general rules of action to be broken.
If it be aught toward the general good, / Set honour in one eye, and death i' the other, / And I will look on both indifferently; / For, let the gods so speed me, as I love / The name of honour more than I fear death.
If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men.
If it is a happiness to be nobly descended, it is not less to have so much merit that nobody inquires whether we are so or not.
If it is disgraceful to be beaten, it is only a
shade less disgraceful to have so much as fought.
If it rains--well! If it shines--well!
If it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well / It were done quickly ... that but this blow / Might be the be all and the end all here.
If it were not for hope, the heart would break.
If it were not for respect to human opinions, I would not open my window to see the Bay of Naples for the first time, whilst I would go five hundred leagues to talk with a man of genius whom I had not seen.
If Jack were better, Jill would not be so bad.
If ladies be but young and fair, / They have the gift to know it.
If life, like the olive, is a bitter fruit, then grasp both with the press and they will yield the sweetest oil.
If man had a higher idea of himself and his destiny, he would neither call his business amusement nor amuse himself instead of transacting business.
If man is not kin to God by his spirit, he is a base and ignoble creature.
If men duly felt the greatness of God, they
would be dumb, and for very veneration unwilling to name Him.
If money be not thy servant, it will be thy master. The covetous man cannot so properly be made to possess wealth as that it may be said to possess him.
If money go before, all ways do lie open.
If music be the food of love, play on; / Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting, / The appetite may sicken, and so die.
If my person be crooked, my verses shall be straight.
If Nature is one and a living indivisible
whole, much more is mankind, the image that reflects and creates Nature, without which Nature were not.
If new-got gold is said to burn the pockets till it be cast forth into circulation, much more may new truth.
If, of all words of tongue and pen, / The saddest are, "It might have been," / More sad are these we daily see: "It is, but hadn't ought to be."
If once you find a woman gluttonous, expect from her very little virtue; her mind is enslaved to the lowest and grossest temptation.
If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavours to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
If one age believes too much, it is but a natural
reaction that another age should believe too little.
If one door shuts, another will open.
If one sees one's fellow-creature following damnable error, by continuing in which the devil is sure to get him at last, are you to let him go towards such consummation, or are you not rather to use all means to save him?
If one were to think constantly of death, the business of life would stand still.
If our era is an era of unbelief, why murmur at it? Is there not a better coming--nay, come?
If people did not flatter one another, there
would be little society.
If people take no care for the future, they will soon have sorrow for the present.
If people were constant, it would surprise me. For see, is not everything in the world subject to change? Why then should our affections continue?
If people would whistle more and argue less, the world would be much happier and probably just as wise.
If poverty is the mother of crimes, want of sense is the father of them.
If poverty makes a man groan, he yawns in
opulence.
If reasons were as plenty as blackberries, I would give no man a reason upon compulsion.
If Satan ever laughs, it must be at hypocrites; they are the greatest dupes he has.
If she be not fit for me, / What care I for whom she be?
If solid happiness we prize, / Within our breast this jewel lies, / And they are fools who roam. / The world has nothing to bestow; / From our own selves our joys must flow, / And that dear hut, our home.
If sorrow falls, / Take comfort still in deeming there may be / A way to peace on earth by woes of ours.
If speculation tends to a terrific unity, in
which all things are absorbed, action tends directly backwards to diversity.
If that God give, the deil daurna reave
If that thy fame with every toy be posed, / 'Tis a thin web which poisonous fancies make; / But the great soldier's honour was composed / Of thicker stuff, which would endure a shake.
If the Almighty waited six thousand years for a man to see what He has made, I may well wait two hundred for others to see what I have seen.
If the ancients left us ideas, to our credit be it spoken, we moderns are building houses for them.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
If the cap fit, wear it.
If the chaff-cutter had the making of us, we should all be straw, I reckon.
If the counsel be good, no matter who gave it.
If the deil were dead, folk would do little for
God's sake.
If the devil takes a less hateful shape to us than to our fathers, he is as busy with us as he was with them.
If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; if he kills, the earth hides it.
If the East loves infinity, the West delights in boundaries.
If the eye were not of a sunny nature
how could it see the sun? If God's own power did not exist within us, how could the godlike delight us?
If the farmer cannot live who drives the plough,
how can he live who drives a fast-trotting mare?
If the heart of a man is depressed with cares, / The mist is dispelled when a woman appears.
If the hungry lion
is to feast at all, it cannot be on the chickenweed, but only on the chickens.
If the king is in the palace, nobody looks at the walls. It is when he is gone, and the house is filled with grooms and gazers, that we turn from the people to find relief in the majestic men that are suggested by the pictures and the architecture.
"If the Lord tarry, yet wait for Him," for He "will surely come" and heal thee.
If the mountain will not come to Mahomet,
Mahomet will go to the mountain.
If the nose of Cleopatra had been a little shorter, it would have changed the history of the world.
If the paternal cottage still shuts us in, its roof still screens us; and with a father we have as yet a prophet, priest, and king, and an obedience that makes us free.
If the pills were pleasant, they would not be gilded.
If the poet have nothing to interpret and reveal, it is better that he remain silent.
If the poor man cannot always get meat, the
rich man cannot always digest it.
If the profession you have chosen has some unexpected inconveniences, console yourself by reflecting that no profession is without them.
If the single man plant himself indomitably on his instincts, and there abide, the huge world will come round to him.
If the sun shines on me, what matters the moon?
If the sky fall, we shall catch larks.
If the time don't suit you, suit yourself to the
time.
If the tongue had not been formed for articulation, man would still be a beast in the forest.
If the true did not possess an objective value, human curiosity would have died out centuries ago.
If the weather don't happen to be good for my work to-day, it's good for some other man's, and will come round to me to-morrow.
If the world were put into one scale and my mother into the other, the world would kick the beam.
If the young knew, if the old could, there's
nothing but would be done.
If there be / A devil in man, there is an angel too.
If there be light, then there is darkness; if cold, heat; if height, depth; if solid, fluid; if hard, soft; if rough, smooth; if calm, tempest; if prosperity, adversity; if life, death.
If there be no enemy, no fight; if no fight, no victory; if no victory, no crown.
If there be not a religious element in the relations of men, such relations are miserable and doomed to ruin.
If there were no clouds, we should not enjoy
the sun.
If there were no falsehood in the world, there would be no doubt; if no doubt, no inquiry; and if no inquiry, no wisdom, no knowledge, no genius.
If there were no fools, there would be no knaves.
If there were only one religion in the world, it would be haughtily and licentiously despotic.
If there's a hole in a' your coats, / I rede ye tent it: / A chiel's amang you takin' notes, / And faith he'll prent it.
If they do these things in the green tree, what shall be done in the dry?
If they hear not Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be persuaded though one rose from the dead.
If thou art a master, be sometimes blind; if a servant, sometimes deaf.
If them art rich, thou art poor; / For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows, / Thou bear'st thy heavy riches but a journey, / And death unloads thee.
If thou art wise, thou knowest thine own
ignorance; and thou art ignorant, if thou knowest not thyself.
If thou be a severe, sour-complexioned man, then here I disallow thee to be a competent judge.
If thou be master-gunner, spend not all / That thou canst speak at once, but husband it.
If thou bear the cross cheerfully, it will bear thee.
If thou canst let others alone in their matters, they likewise will not hinder thee in thine.
If thou cast away one cross, without doubt
thou shalt find another, and that perhaps more heavy.
If thou deniest to a laborious man and a deserving, thou killest a bee; if thou givest to other than such, thou preservest a drone.
If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted?
If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small.
If thou hast fear of those who command thee, spare those who obey thee.
If thou hast run with the footmen, and they
have wearied thee, then how canst thou contend with horses? and if in the land of peace, wherein thou trustedst, they wearied thee, then how wilt thou do in the swelling of Jordan?
If thou love learning, thou shalt be learned.
If thou seest the oppression of the poor, ... marvel not at the matter; for He that is higher than the highest regardeth; and there be higher than they.
If thou sustain injustice, console thyself; the true unhappiness is in doing it.
If thou wouldst profit by thy reading, read humbly, simply, honestly, and not desiring to win a character for learning.
If thou wouldst reap in love, / First sow in
holy fear; / So life a winter's morn may prove / To a bright endless year.
If thy estate be good, match near home and at leisure; if weak, far off and quickly.
If thy son can make ten pound his measure, / Then all thou addest may be called his treasure.
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been churches and poor men's cottages princes' palaces.
If truth be with thy friend, be with them both.
If vain our toil, we ought to blame the culture,
not the soil.
If virtue keep court within, honour will attend without.
If we are not famous for goodness, we are practically infamous.
If we are rich with the riches which we neither give nor enjoy, we are rich with the riches which are buried in the caverns of the earth.
If we are told a man is religious, we still ask what are his morals; but if we hear he has honest morals, we seldom think of the other question, whether he be religious.
If we are wise, we may thank ourselves; if we
are great, we must thank fortune.
If we bear what we must bear with murmuring and grudging, we do but gall our shoulders with the yoke, and render that a heavy unprofitable load which might be fruitful and glorious.
If we ... / Cannot defend our own doors from the dog, / Let us be worried, and our nation lose / The name of hardiness and policy.
If we cannot help committing errors, we must build none.
If we cannot live so as to be happy, let us at least live so as to deserve happiness.
If we cast off one burden, we are immediately
pursued and oppressed by another.
If we clear the metaphysical element out of modern literature, we shall find its bulk amazingly diminished, and the claims of the remaining writers, or of those whom we have thinned by this abstraction of their straw-stuffing, much more easily adjusted.
If we could have a little patience, we should escape much mortification. Time takes away as much as it gives.
If we could read the secret history of our enemies, we should find in each man's life sorrow and suffering enough to disarm all hostility.
If we do not find happiness in the present moment, in what shall we find it?
If we do not now reckon a great man literally
divine, it is that our notions of the divine are ever rising higher; not altogether that our reverence for the divine, as manifested in our like, is getting lower.
If we do well here, we shall do well there.
If we engage into a large acquaintance and various familiarities, we set open our gates to the invaders of most of our time.
If we examine our thoughts, we shall find them always occupied with the past and the future.
If we fail to conquer smaller difficulties, what will become of us when assaulted by greater?
If we hope for what we are not likely to possess, we act and think in vain, and make life a greater dream and shadow than it really is.
If we live truly, we shall see truly.
If we love those we lose, can we altogether lose those we love?
If we reflect on the number of men we have seen and know, and consider how little we have been to them and they to us, what must our feelings be?
We meet with the man 
If we reflect on the number of men we have seen and know, and consider how little we have been to them and they to us, what must our feelings be? (_Geistreich_) 
If we reflect on the number of men we have seen and know, and consider how little we have been to them and they to us, what must our feelings be? (_Geistreich_)  with the scholar without learning from him, with the traveller without gaining information from him, the amiable man without making ourselves agreeable to him. And this, alas! happens not merely with passing acquaintances; society and families conduct themselves similarly towards their dearest members, cities towards their worthiest citizens, peoples towards their most excellent princes, and nations towards their most eminent men.
If we saw all the things that really surround
us, we should be imprisoned and unable to move.
If we should all bring our misfortunes into one place, most of us would be glad to take our own home again rather than take a proportion out of the common stock.
If we shut Nature out at the door, she will come in at the window.
If we sit down sullen and inactive, in expectation that God should do all, we shall find ourselves miserably deceived.
If we will disbelieve everything because we cannot certainly know all things, we shall do much as wisely as he who would not use his legs, but sit still and perish because he had no wings.
If we wish to do good to men, we must pity
and not despise them.
If we would amend the world, we should mend ourselves and teach our children what they should be.
If we would endeavour like brave men to stand in the battle, surely we should feel the assistance from Heaven.
If we would have a genuine torment, let us wish for too much time.
If we would put ourselves in the place of other people, the jealousy and dislike which we often feel towards them would depart, and if we put others in our place, our pride and self-conceit would very much decrease.
If what happens does not make us richer, we
must bid it welcome if it make us wiser.
If "wise memory" is ever to prevail, there is need of much "wise oblivion" first.
If within the sophisticated man there is not an unsophisticated one, then he is but one of the devil's angels.
If women were humbler, men would be honester.
If wrong our hearts, our heads are right in vain.
If ye believe a' ye hear, ye may eat a' ye see.
If ye gi'e a woman a' her will, / Guid faith, she'll soon o'ergang ye.
If you agree to carry the calf, they'll make you carry the cow.
If you anticipate your inheritance, you can at last inherit nothing.
If you are idle, be not solitary; if you are solitary, be not idle.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
If you cannot drive the engine, you can clear the road.
If you cannot have the best, make the best of what you have.
If you cannot make a man think as you do, make him do as you think.
If you can't get a loaf, don't throw away a cake.
If you can't heal the wound, don't tear it open.
If you can't pay for a thing, don't buy it. If you can't get paid for it, don't sell it. So you will have calm days, drowsy nights, and all the good business you have now, and none of the bad.
If you command wisely, you'll be obeyed cheerfully.
If you criticise a fine genius, the odds are that you are out of your reckoning, and instead of the poet, are censuring your own caricature of him.
If you desire faith, then you've faith enough.
If you desire to enjoy my light, you must supply
oil to my lamp.
If you dinna see the bottom, don't wade
If you dissemble sometimes your knowledge of that you are thought to know, you shall be thought, another time, to know that you know not.
If you do anything for the sake of the world, it will take good care that you shall not do it a second time.
If you do not err, you do not attain to understanding.
If you do not wish a man to do a thing, you
had better get him to talk about it; for the more men talk, the more likely they are to do nothing else.
If you don't do better to-day, you'll do worse to-morrow.
If you don't touch the rope, you won't ring the bell.
If you eat, eat a portion; do not eat all.
If you have a good seat, keep it.
If you have a special weakness, do not expose
it by attempting to do things which will bring it out.
If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them.
If you have lived one day, you have seen all.
If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
If you have time, don't wait for time.
If you know how to spend less than you get, you have the philosopher's stone.
If you lie upon roses when young, you will lie upon thorns when old.
If you listen to David's harp, you shall hear as many hearse-like airs as carols.
If you live among men, the heart must either break or turn to brass.
If you make a law against dancing-masters
imitating the fine gentleman, you should with as much reason enact, that no fine gentleman shall imitate the dancing-master.
If you pity rogues, you are no great friend of honest men.
If you pull one pig by the tail, all the rest will squeak.
If you put a chain around the neck of a slave, the other end fastens itself around your own.
If you raise one ghost, you will have the churchyard in motion.
If you read the Bible with a predetermination to
pick out every text you approve of, on these terms you will find it entirely intelligible and wholly delightful; but if you read it with a real purpose of trying to understand it, and obey, and so read it all through steadily, you will find it, out and out, the crabbedest and most difficult book you ever tried.
If you resolve to do right, you will soon do wisely; but resolve only to do wisely, and you will never do right.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
If you say nothing, nobody will repeat it.
If you seek warmth of affection from a similar motive to that from which cats and dogs and slothful persons hug the fire, you are on the downward road.
If you sell the cow, you sell her milk too.
If you sit down a mere philosopher, you will rise almost an atheist.
If you tell me all you see, you'll tell what will make you feel shame.
If you throw all your money into the sea, yet count it before you let it go.
If you trust before you try, / You may repent before you die.
If you want a pretence to whip a dog, say
that he ate the frying-pan.
If you want learning, you must work for it.
If you want to gain a reputation for eccentricity and to be universally dreaded, blurt out the plain truth on all occasions.
If you want to know a man, make a solitary journey with him.
If you want work done, go to the man who is already fully occupied.
If you were as eager to discover good as evil,
and had the same delight in spreading the report of it; if good examples were made public as the bad ones always are, do you not think that the good would weigh down the balance? But gratitude speaks so low, and indignation so loudly, that you cannot hear but the last.
If you wish a wise answer, you must put a rational question.
If you wish to astonish the whole world, tell the simple truth.
If you would be a smith, begin with blowing the fire.
If you would be pungent, be brief, for it is with words as with sunbeams, the more they are condensed the deeper they burn.
If you would be well served, you must serve
yourself.
If you would cease to dislike a man, try to get nearer his heart.
If you would create something, you must be something.
If you would ensure a peaceful old age, be careful of the acts of each day of your youth; for with youth the deeds thereof are not to be left behind.
If you would eschew pain, eschew pleasure.
If you would have a faithful servant and one
you like, serve yourself.
If you would have it well done, you must do it yourself; you must not leave it to others.
If you would know and not be known, live in a city.
If you would learn to write, it is the street you must learn it in.
If you would love mankind, you should not expect too much from them.
If you would make Fortune your friend; when
people say money is to be got here and money is to be got there, take no notice; mind your own business; stay where you are; and secure all you can get, without stirring.
If you would rule the world quietly, you must keep it amused.
If you would slip into a round hole, you must make a ball of yourself.
If you would succeed, you must not be too good.
If you would understand an author, you must understand his age.
If you would work any man, know his nature
and fashions, and so lead him.
If your mind and its affections be pure, and sincere, and moderate, nothing shall have the power to enslave you.
If your wife is short, stoop to her.
Ignavis semper feriæ sunt
Ignavissimus quisque, et, ut res docuit, in periculo non ausurus, nimio verbis et lingua ferox
Ignavum fucos pecus a præsepibus arcent
Ignem gladio scrutare modo
Ignem ne gladio fodito
Ignis aurum probat, miseria fortes viros
Ignis fatuus
Ignis sacer
Ignobile vulgus
Ignoramus
Ignorance is a heavy burden.
Ignorance is a prolonged infancy, only deprived of its charm.
Ignorance is bold, and knowledge reserved.
Ignorance is the curse of God, knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven.
Ignorance is the dominion of absurdity.
Ignorance is the mother of devotion.
Ignorance is the mother of impudence.
Ignorance is the night of the mind, but a night without moon or star.
Ignorance is the primary source of all misery and vice.
Ignorance is preferable to error.
Ignorance never settles a question.
Ignorance shuts its eyes and believes it is right.
Ignorant of guilt, I fear not shame.
Ignorantia facti excusat
Ignorantia legis excusat neminem
Ignoratio elenchi
Ignoratione rerum bonarum et malarum, maxime hominum vita vexatur
Ignorent populi, si non in morte probaris, / An scires adversa pati
Ignoscas aliis multa, nil tibi
Ignoti nulla cupido
Ignotis errare locis, ignota videre / Flumina
gaudebat, studio minuente laborem
Ignotum argenti pondus et auri
Ignotum per ignotius
Ihr Kinder, lernet jetzt genug, / Ihr lernt nichts mehr in alten Zeiten
Ihr sagt es sei nichts als Glück / Zu siegen ohne die Tacktick / Doch besser ohne Tacktick siegen / Als mit derselben unterliegen
Ihr sucht die Menschen zu benennen, /
und glaubt am Namen sie zu kennen; / Wer tiefer sieht, gesteht sich frei, / Es ist das Anonymes dabei
Il a inventé l'histoire
Il a la mer à boire
Il a la tête près du bonnet
Il a le diable au corps
Il a le verbe haut
Il a le vin mauvais
Il a les yeux à fleur de tête
Il a mangé son pain blanc le premier
Il a plus que personne l'esprit que tout le monde a
Il a travaillé pour le roi de Prusse
Il a vu le loup
Il aboye à tout le monde
Il arrive comme Mars en Carème
Il attend, que les alouettes lui tombent toutes rôties
Il buon mercato vuota la borsa
Il buono è buono, ma il meglio vince
Il can battuto dal bastone ha paura dell' ombra
Il castigo puo differirsi ma non si toglie
Il conduit bien sa barque
Il connaît l'univers et ne se connaît pas
Il coûte peu à amasser beaucoup de richesse, et beaucoup à en amasser peu
Il diavolo tenta tutti, ma l'ozioso tenta il diavolo
Il donne des entrailles à tous les mots
Il en est d'un homme qui aime, comme d'un moineau, pris à la glu; plus il se débat, plus il s'embarrasse
Il en fait ses choux gras
Il est aisé d'ajouter aux inventions des autres
Il est aisé d'aller à pied, quand on tient son cheval par la bride
Il est aux anges
Il est avis à vieille vache qu'elle ne fût oncques veau
Il est bien aisé à ceux qui se portent bien de
donner des avis aux malades
Il est bien difficile de garder un trésor dont tous les hommes ont la clef
Il est bien fou qui s'oublie
Il est bon d'être ferme par tempérament et flexible par réflexion
Il est bon d'être habile, mais non pas de le paraître
Il est comme l'oiseau sur la branche
Il est peu de distance de la roche Tarpéienne au Capitole
Il est plus aisé d'être sage pour les autres que pour soi-même
Il est plus honteux de se défier de ses amis que d'en être trompé
Il est souvent plus court et plus utile de cadrer aux autres que de faire que les autres s'adjustent à nous
Il est temps d'être sage quand on a la barbe au
menton
Il est tout prêché qui n'a cure de bien faire
Il est trop difficile de penser noblement, quand on ne pense que pour vivre
Il faisoit de necessité vertu
Il fallait un calculateur, ce fut un danseur qui l'obtint
Il faut attendre le boiteux
Il faut avaler bien de la fumée aux lampes avant que de devenir bon orateur
Il faut avoir pitié des morts
Il faut avoir une âme
Il faut de plus grandes vertus pour soutenir la bonne fortune que la mauvaise
Il faut en affrontant l'orage / Penser, vivre et
mourir en roi
Il faut hurler avec les loups
Il faut laver son linge sale en famille
Il faut payer de sa vie
Il faut perdre un véron pour pêcher un saumon
Il faut qu'une porte soit ouverte ou fermée
Il faut savoir s'ennuyer
Il faut sortir de la vie ainsi que d'un banquet, / Remerciant son hôte, et faisant son paquet
Il fuoco non s'estingue con fuoco
Il fut historien pour rester orateur
Il me faut du nouveau, n'en fût-il point au
monde
Il meglio è l'inimico del bene
Il meurt connu de tous et ne se connaît pas
Il mondo è di chi ha pazienza
Il mondo è fatto a scale; / Chi le scende, e chi le sale
Il mondo sta con tre cose: fare, disfare, e dare
ad intendere
Il monta sur ses grands chevaux
Il nage entre deux eaux
Il n'a ni bouche ni éperon
Il n'a pas inventé la poudre
Il n'a pas l'air, mais la chanson
Il n'appartient qu'aux grands hommes, d'avoir de grands défauts
Il n'attache pas ses chiens avec des saucisses
Il n'avait pas précisément des vices, mais il était rongé d'une vermine de petits défauts, dont on ne pouvait l'épurer
Il n'est d'heureux que qui croit l'être
Il n'est orgueil que de pauvre enrichi
Il n'est pas d'homme nécessaire
Il n'est pas échappé qui traîne son lien
Il n'est rien d'inutile aux personnes de sens
Il n'est sauce que d'appétit
Il ne fait rien, et nuit à qui veut faire
Il ne faut jamais se moquer des misérables, / Car qui peut s'assurer d'être toujours heureux?
Il ne faut pas nous fâcher des choses passées
Il ne faut pas parler latin devant les Cordeliers
Il ne faut pas voler avant que d'avoir des ailes
Il ne faut point parler de corde dans la famille d'un pendu
Il ne sait plus de quel bois faire flèche
Il ne sait sur quel pied danser
Il n'y a de nouveau que ce qui a vieilli
Il n'y a de nouveau que ce qui est oublié
Il n'y a de sots si incommodes que ceux qui ont de l'esprit
Il n'y a pas à dire
Il n'y a pas de cheval si bon qu'il ne bronche pas
Il n'y a pas de gens plus affairés que ceux qui
n'ont rien à faire
Il n'y a pas de petit ennemi
Il n'y a peut-être point de vérité qui ne soit à quelque esprit faux matière d'erreur
Il n'y a plus de Pyrénées
Il n'y a point au monde un si pénible métier que celui de se faire un grand nom. La vie s'achève que l'on a à peine ébauché son ouvrage
Il n'y a point de chemin trop long à qui marche
lentement et sans se presser, il n'y a point d'avantages trop éloignés à qui s'y prépare par la patience
Il n'y a point de plus cruelle tyrannie que celle que l'on exerce à l'ombre des lois et avec les couleurs de la justice
Il n'y a que la vérité qui blesse
Il n'y a que le matin en toutes choses
Il n'y a que le premier pas qui coûte
Il n'y a que les honteux qui perdent
Il n'y a que les morts qui ne reviennent pas
Il n'y a rien de si puissant qu'une république où l'on observe les lois, non pas par crainte, non pas par raison, mais par passion
Il n'y a rien que la crainte et l'espérance ne persuadent aux hommes
Il paraît qu'on n'apprend pas à mourir en tuant les autres
Il passa par la gloire, il passa par le crime, et il
n'est arrivé qu'au malheur
Il penseroso
Il plaît à tout le monde et ne saurait se plaire
Il porte le deuil de sa blanchisseuse
Il riso fa buon sangue
Il rit bien qui rit le dernier
Il sabio muda conscio, il nescio no
Il se fait entendre, à force de se faire écouter
Il se faut entr'aider; c'est la loi de nature
Il sent le fagot
Il tacer non fu mai scritto
Il tempo è un galant 'uomo
Il tempo buono viene una volta sola
Il tempo è una lima sorda
Il trouverait à tondre sur un œuf
Il va du blanc au noir
Il vaut mieux avoir affaire à Dieu qu'à ses saints
Il vaut mieux être fou avec tous, que sage tout seul
Il vaut mieux être marteau qu'enclume
Il vaut mieux être singe perfectionné qu'un Adam dégénéré
Il vaut mieux faire envie que pitié
Il vaut mieux tâcher d'oublier ses malheurs que d'en parler
Il vero punge, e la bugia unge
Il villano en su tierra, y el hidalgo donde quiera
Il volto sciolto, i pensieri stretti
Il y a anguille sous roche
Il y a bien des gens qu'on estime, parce qu'on ne les connaît point
Il y a dans la jalousie plus d'amour-propre que d'amour
Il y a des gens à qui la vertu sied presque
aussi mal que le vice
Il y a des gens auxquels il faut trois cent ans pour commencer voir une absurdité
Il y a des gens dégoûtants avec du mérite, et d'autres qui plaisent avec des défauts
Il y a des gens qui ressemblent aux vaudevilles, qu'on ne chante qu'un certain temps
Il y a des reproches qui louent, et des louanges qui médisent
Il y a des vérités qui ne sont pas pour tous
les hommes et pour tous les temps
Il y a encore de quoi glaner
Il y a fagots et fagots
Il y a plus de quarante ans que je dis de la prose sans que j'en susse rien
Il y a plus fous acheteurs que de fous vendeurs
Il y a quelque chose dans les malheurs de nos
meilleurs amis qui ne nous déplaît pas
Il y a souvent de l'illusion, de la mode, du caprice dans le jugement des hommes
Il y a une espèce de honte d'être heureux à la vue de certaines misères
Il y en a peu qui gagnent à être approfondis
Il y va de la vie
Iliacos intra muros peccatur et extra
Ilicet infandum cuncti contra omina bellum / Contra fata deum, perverso numine poscunt
Ilka
Ilka dog has his day.
Ilk happing bird, wee, helpless thing, / That, in the merry months of spring, / Delighted me to hear thee sing, / What comes o' thee? / Where wilt thou cower thy chittering wing, an' close thy e'e?
Ill bairns are best heard at hame.
Ill begun, ill done.
Ill can he rule the great that cannot reach the small.
Ill comes upon war's back.
Ill-doers are ill thinkers.
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, /
Where wealth accumulates and men decay.
Ill fortune never crushes that man whom good fortune deceived not.
Ill got, ill spent.
Ill-gotten wealth seldom descends to the third generation.
Ill habits gather by unseen degrees, / As brooks make rivers, rivers run to seas.
Ill hearing mak's ill rehearsing.
Ill-humour is nothing more than an inward feeling of our own want of merit, a dissatisfaction with ourselves.
Ill luck comes by pounds and goes away by ounces.
Ill news comes apace.
Ill weeds are not hurt by frost.
Ill weeds grow apace.
Illa dolet vere quæ sine teste dolet
Illa est agricolæ messis iniqua suo
Illa laus est, magno in genere et in divitiis maximis, / Liberos hominem educare, generi monumentum et sibi
Illa placet tellus in qua res parva beatum / Me facit, et tenues luxuriantur opes
Illa victoria viam ad pacem patefecit
Illæso lumine solem
Illam, quicquid agit, quoque vestigia flectit, /
Componit furtim, subsequiturque decor
Ille crucem sceleris pretium tulit, hic diadema
Ille igitur nunquam direxit brachia contra / Torrentem; nec civis erat qui libera posset / Verba animi proferre, et vitam impendere vero
Ille per extentum funem mihi posse videtur / Ire poeta, meum qui pectus inaniter angit / Irritat mulcet falsis terroribus implet / Ut magus: et modo me Thebis, modo ponit Athenis
Ille potens sui / Lætusque degit, cui licet in diem / Dixisse, Vixi: cras vel atra / Nube polum pater occupato / Vel sole puro
Ille sinistrorsum, hic dextrorsum, abit: unus
utrique / Error, sed variis illudit partibus
Ille terrarum mihi præter omnes / Angulus ridet
Ille vir, haud magna cum re, sed plenus fidei
Illi inter sese multa vi brachia tollunt / In numerum, versantque tenaci forcipe massam
Illi robur et æs triplex / Circa pectus erat, qui fragilem truci / Commisit pelago ratem / Primus
Illic apposito narrabis multa Lyæo
Illud amicitiæ sanctum ac venerabile nomen / Nunc tibi pro vili sub pedibusque jacet
Illusion on a ground of truth is the secret of the fine arts.
Illustrious acts high raptures do infuse, / And every conqueror creates a muse.
Ils chantent, ils payeront
Ils n'ont rien appris, ni rien oublié
Ils s'amusaient tristement, selon la coutume de leur pays
Ils se ne servent de la pensée que pour autoriser leurs injustices, et emploient les paroles que pour déguiser leurs pensées
Ils sont passés, ces jours de fête
Ils veulent être libres et ne savent pas être justes
Im Alter erstaunt und bereut man nicht mehr
Im Becher ersaufen mehr als im Meer
Im Ganzen, Guten, Wahren resolut zu leben
Im Gedränge hier auf Erden / Kann nicht jeder, was er will
Im Grabe ist Ruh!
Im Leben ist der Mensch zehn Jahre in Kriege
und zehn in der Irre, gleich dem Ulysses
Im Leben ist nichts Gegenwart
Im Mangel, nicht im Ueberfluss / Keimt der Genuss
Im Schmerze wird die neue Zeit geboren
Im Unglück halte aus; / Im Glücke halte ein
Im Wasser kannst du dein Antlitz sehn, / Im
Wein des andern Herz erspähn
Imaginary evils soon become real ones by indulging our reflections on them.
Imagination is always the ruling and divine power, and the rest of the man is only the instrument which it sounds, or the tablet on which it writes.
Imagination is a mettled horse that will break the rider's neck when a donkey would have carried him to the end of his journey, slow but sure.
Imagination is but a poor matter when it has to part company with understanding.
Imagination is central; fancy, superficial.
Imagination is Eternity.
Imagination is the eye of the soul.
Imagination is the mightiest despot.
Imagination is too often accompanied with a somewhat irregular logic.
Imagination rules the world.
Imitation is born with us, but what we ought to imitate is not easily found.
Imitation is the sincerest flattery.
Imitation is suicide.
Immediate are the acts of God, more swift / Than time or motion.
Immer etwas Neues, selten etwas Gutes
Immer Neues spriesset / Eh' ein Mensch geniesset / Mit Verstand das Alte
Immer wird, nie ist
Immer zu! Immer zu! / Ohne Rast und Ruh!
Immer zu misstrauen ist ein Irrthum wie immer zu trauen
Immo id, quod aiunt, auribus teneo lupum / Nam neque quomodo a me amittam, invenio: neque, uti retineam scio
Immodest words admit of no defence, / For want of decency is want of sense.
Immoritur studiis, et amore senescit habendi
Immortale odium et nunquam sanabile vulnus
Immortalia ne speres monet annus, et almum / Quæ rapit hora diem
Immortality will come to such as are fit for it; and he who would be a great soul in future must be a great soul now.
Imo pectore
Impatience changeth smoke to flame.
Impatience dries the blood sooner than age or
sorrow.
Impatience is the principal cause of most of our irregularities and extravagances.
Impatience waiteth on true sorrow.
Impavidum ruinæ ferient
Impera parendo
Imperat aut servit collecta pecunia cuique
Imperfection is in some sort essential to all that we know of life. It is the sign of life in a mortal body, that is, of a state of progress and change.
Imperfection means perfection hid, / Reserved in part to grace the after-time.
Imperfections cling to a man, which, if he wait till he have brushed off entirely, he will spin for ever on his axis, advancing nowhither.
Imperia dura tolle, quid virtus erit?
Imperious Cæsar, dead and turn'd to clay, /
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
Imperium et libertas
Imperium facile iis artibus retinetur, quibus initio partum est
Imperium in imperio
Impertinent and lavish talking is in itself a very vicious habit.
Impetrare oportet, quia æquum postulas
Implacabiles plerumque læsæ mulieres
"Impossible" est un mot que je ne dis jamais
Impossible is the precept "Know thyself," till it be translated into this partially possible one, "Know what thou canst work at."
Impossible! Ne me dites jamais ce bête de mot
"Impossible" n'est pas français
"Impossible," when Truth and Mercy and the everlasting voice of Nature order, has no place in the brave man's dictionary.
"Impossible!" who talks to me of impossibilities?
Impotentia excusat legem
Impransus
Imprimatur
Imprimis
Imprimis venerare Deos
Improbæ / Crescunt divitiæ, tamen / Curtæ nescio quid semper abest rei
Improbe amor, quid non mortalia pectora cogis?
Improbe Neptunum accusat, qui naufragium
iterum facit
Improbis aliena virtus semper formidolosa est
Impromptu
Improvement is Nature.
Imprudent expression in conversation may be forgotten and pass away; but when we take the pen into our hand, we must remember that
Impudence is no virtue, yet able to beggar
them all.
Impunitas semper ad deteriora invitat
In a boundless universe / Is boundless better, boundless worse.
In a calm sea, every man is a pilot.
In a commercial nation impostors are abroad in all professions.
In a fair gale every fool may sail, but wise
behaviour in a storm commends the wisdom of the pilot.
In a free country there is much complaining but little suffering; under a despotism, much suffering but little complaining.
In a good lord there must first be a good animal, at least to the extent of yielding the incomparable advantage of animal spirits.
In a great soul everything is great.
In a healthy state of the organism all wounds have a tendency to heal.
In a lawsuit nothing is certain but the expense.
In a leopard the spots are not observed.
In a lottery, where there is (at the lowest computation) ten thousand blanks to one prize, it is the most prudent choice not to venture.
In a man's letters his soul lies naked; his letters are only the mirror of his breast.
 (used in voti
In a narrow circle the mind grows narrow; the
more a man expands, the larger his aims.
In a noble race, levity without virtue is seldom found. In a mine of rubies, when shall we find pieces of glass?
In a poem there should be not only the poetry of images, but also the poetry of ideas.
In a symbol there is concealment and yet revelation, silence and speech acting together, some embodiment and revelation of the infinite, made to blend itself with the finite, to stand visible, and, as it were, attainable there.
In a thousand pounds of law there is not an ounce of love.
In a valiant suffering for others, not in a slothful
making others suffer for us, did nobleness ever lie.
In acta
In action, a great heart is the chief qualification; in work, a great head.
In æquali jure melior est conditio possidentis
In æternum
In all battles, if you await the issue, each
fighter has prospered according to his right. His right and his might, at the close of the account, were the same.
In all faiths there is something true / ... Something that keeps the Unseen in view, / ... And notes His gifts with the worship due.
In all human action, those faculties will be strong which are used.
In all human narrative, it is the battle only, and not the victory, that can be dwelt on with advantage.
In all literary history there is no such figure as Dante, no such homogeneousness of life and works, such loyalty to ideas, such sublime irrecognition of the unessential.
In all matters prefer the less evil to the
greater, and solace yourself under any ill with the reflection that it might be worse.
In all provinces there are artists and artisans; men who labour mechanically in a department, without eye for the whole, not feeling that there is a whole; and men who inform and ennoble the humblest department with an idea of the whole, and habitually know that only in the whole is the partial to be truly discerned.
In all science error precedes the truth, and it is better it should go first than last.
In all situations
In all straits the good behave themselves with meekness and patience.
In all things that live there are certain irregularities
and deficiencies, which are not only signs of life, but sources of beauty.
In all things, to serve from the lowest station upwards is necessary.
In all times it is only individuals that have advanced science, not the age.
In all true work, were it but true hand-labour, there is something of divineness.
In all vital action the manifest purpose and effort of Nature is, that we should be unconscious of it.... Nature so meant it with us; it is so we are made.
In allem andern lass dich lenken / Nur nicht
im Fühlen und im Denken
In alms regard thy means and others' merit. / Think Heaven a better bargain than to give / Only thy single market-money for it.
In ambiguo
In America you can get tea, and coffee, and meat every day. But the only true America is that country where you are at liberty to pursue such a mode of life as may enable you to do without these.
In an aristocratical institution like England, not trial by jury, but the dinner is the capital institution. It is the mode of doing honour to a stranger to invite him to eat, and has been for many a hundred years.
In anima vili
In annulo Dei figuram ne gestato
In any controversy, the instant we feel angry we have already ceased striving for truth and begun striving for ourselves.
In aqua scribis
In arena ædificas
In arguing, be calm; for fierceness makes / Error a fault, and truth discourtesy.
In argument with men, a woman ever / Goes by the worse, whatever be her cause.
In art and in deeds, only that is properly achieved which, like Minerva, springs full-grown and armed from the head of the inventor.
In art, to express the infinite one should suggest
infinitely more than is expressed.
In articulo mortis
In audaces non est audacia tuta
In beato omnia beata
In bocca chiusa, non c' entran mosche
In books lies the soul of the whole past time;
the articulate audible voice of the past, when the body and material substance of it has altogether vanished like a dream.
In breathing there are two kinds of blessings
inhaling the air 
it; the former is oppressive, the latter refreshing; so strangely is life mingled. Thank God when He lays a burden on thee, and thank Him when He takes it off.
In bunten Bildern wenig Klarheit, / Viel Irrtum und ein Fünkchen Wahrheit, / So wird der beste Trank gebraut, / Der alle Welt erquickt und auferbaut
In buying horses and taking a wife, shut your eyes and commend yourself to God.
In caducum parietem inclinare
In calamitoso risus etiam injuria est
In capite
In casu extremæ necessitatis omnia sunt communia
In Catholic countries religion and liberty exclude each other; in Protestant ones they accept each other.
In cauda venenum
In causa facili, cuivis licet esse diserto
In character, in manner, in style, in all things the supreme excellence is simplicity.
In cheerful souls there is no evil; wit shows a disturbance of the equipoise.
In childhood be modest, in youth temperate, in manhood just, and in old age prudent.
In choosing friends, we should choose those whose qualities are innate, and their virtues virtues of the temperament.
In Christ the infinite itself has come down to
the level of the finite, and the finite has been raised to the level of the infinite, and in His single person the spirit of the universe stands revealed.
In civil broils the worst of men may rise to honour.
In clothes, cheap handsomeness doth bear the bell.
In clothes clean and fresh there is a kind of youth with which age should surround itself.
In cœlo nunquam spectatum impune cometam
In cœlo quies
In cœlum jacularis
In commendam
In common things the law of sacrifice takes the form of positive duty.
In communism, inequality springs from placing mediocrity on a level with excellence.
In composing a book, the last thing that one
learns is to know what to put first.
In constitutional states, liberty is a compensation for heaviness of taxation; in despotic ones, lightness of taxation is a compensation for liberty.
In contemplation, if a man begin with certainties, he shall end in doubts; but if he will be content to begin with doubts, he shall end in certainties.
In conversation, boldness now bears sway.
In conversation, humour is more than wit, easiness more than knowledge.
In courtesy rather pay a penny too much than
too little.
In crucifixo gloria mea
In cumulo
In curia
In cute curanda plus æquo operata juventus
In days of yore nothing was holy but the
beautiful.
In deep waters men find great pearls.
In deinem Glauben ist dein Himmel, / In deinem Herzen ist dein Glück
In deinem Nichts hoff' ich das All zu finden
In delay / We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
In Deo spero
In der jetzigen Zeit soll Niemand schweigen oder nachgeben; man muss reden und sich rühren, nicht um zu überwinden, sondern sich auf seinem Posten zu erhalten; ob bei der Majorität oder Minorität, ist ganz gleichgültig
In der Kunst ist das Beste gut genug
In der Noth allein / Bewähret sich der Adel grosser Seele
In dictione
In die Hölle kommt man mit grösserer Mühe,
als in den Himmel
In diem
In diem vivere
In dim eclipse disastrous twilight sheds / On half the nations, and with fear of change perplexes monarchs.
In diving to the bottom of pleasures we bring up more gravel than pearls.
In doubtful matters courage may do much; in
desperate, patience.
In dubiis
In dubiis benigniora semper sunt præferenda
In dulci jubilo
In duty prompt, at every call, / He watch'd, and wept, and felt, and prayed for all.
In dyeing the spiritual nature there are two
processes--first, the cleansing and wringing out, which is the baptism with water; and then the infusing of the blue and scarlet colours, gentleness and justice, which is the baptism with fire.
In eadem re utilitas et turpitudo esse non potest
In eating, after nature is once satisfied, every additional morsel brings stupidity and distempers with it.
In eburna vagina, plumbeus gladius
In eloquence, the great triumphs of the art are when the orator is lifted above himself; when consciously he makes himself the mere tongue of the occasion and the hour, and says what cannot but be said.
In equilibrio
In esse
In every age and clime we see / Two of a trade can never agree.
In every battle the eye is first conquered.
In every beginning think of the end.
In every bone there is marrow, and within
every jacket there is a man.
In every change there will be many that suffer real or imaginary grievances, and therefore many will be dissatisfied.
In every child there lies a wonderful deep.
In every country the sun rises in the morning.
In every creed there are two elements--the Divine substance and the human form. The form must change with the changing thoughts of men; and even the substance may come to shine with clearer light, and to reveal unexpected glories, as God and man come nearer together.
In every department of life we thank God that
we are not like our fathers.
In every department one must begin as a child; throw a passionate interest over the subject; take pleasure in the shell till one has the happiness to arrive at the kernel.
In every epoch of the world, the great event, parent of all others, is it not the arrival of a thinker in the world?
In every fault there is folly.
In every great epoch there is some one idea at work which is more powerful than any other, and which shapes the events of the time and determines their ultimate issues.
In every heart are sown the sparks that kindle
fiery war; occasion needs but fan them, and they blaze.
In every landscape the point of astonishment is the meeting of the sky and the earth, and that is seen from the first hillock as well as from the top of the Alleghanies.
 (_T
In every life there is an upward and a downward who remains steadfast in the mean between.
In every man there is a certain feeling that he has been what he is from all eternity, and by no means became such in time.
In every parting there is an image of death.
In every phenomenon the beginning remains
always the most notable moment.
In every rank, or great or small, / 'Tis industry supports us all.
In every ship there must be a seeing pilot, not a mere hearing one.
In even the wisest soul lies a whole world of internal madness, an authentic demon-empire; out of which, indeed, his world of wisdom has been creatively built together, and now rests there, as on its dark foundation does a habitable flowery earth-rind.
In every village there will arise a miscreant to establish the most grinding tyranny by calling himself the people.
In exalting the faculties of the soul we annihilate,
in a great degree, the delusion of the senses.
In extenso
In extremis
In failing circumstances no man can be relied on to keep his integrity.
In Faith and Hope the world will disagree, / But all mankind's concern is Charity.
In faith everything depends on "that" you believe;
in knowledge everything depends on "what" you know, as well as how much and how well.
In fashionable circles general satire, which attacks the fault rather than the person, is unwelcome; while that which attacks the person and spares the fault is always acceptable.
In ferrum pro libertate ruebant
In flagranti delicto
In flammam flammas, in mare fundis aquas
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In forma pauperis
In foro conscientiæ
In frosty weather a nail is worth a horse.
In furias ignemque ruunt; amor omnibus idem
In futuro
In general, indulgence for those we know is rarer than pity for those we know not.
In general, pride is at the bottom of all great mistakes.
In generalibus latet dolus
In giants we must kill pride and arrogance; but our greatest foes, and whom we must chiefly combat, are within.
In Glück Vorsichtigkeit, in Unglück Geduld
In good bearing beginneth worship.
In good years, corn is hay; in ill years, straw is corn.
In granting and in refusing, in joy and in sorrow, in liking and in disliking, good men, because of their own likeness, show mercy unto all things which have life.
In great states, children are always trying to remain children, and the parents wanting to make men and women of them. In vile states, the children are always wanting to be men and women, and the parents to keep them children.
In health, to be stirring shall profit thee best; /
in sickness, hate trouble, seek quiet and rest.
In heaven ambition cannot dwell, / Nor avarice in the vaults of hell.
In heaven the angels are advancing continually to the spring-time of their youth, so that the oldest angel appears the youngest.
In Heaven's sight the mere wish to pray is prayer.
In her eyes that never weep, lightnings are laid asleep.
In her first passion, woman loves her lover, /
In all the others, all she loves is love.
In high life every one is polished and courteous, but no one has the courage to be hearty and true.
In Him we live and move and have our being.
In hoc signo spes mea
In hoc signo vinces
In hoc statu
In hope to merit heaven by making earth a hell.
In idleness alone is there perpetual despair.
In illo viro, tantum robur corporis et animi fuit, ut quocunque loco natus esset, fortunam sibi facturus videretur
In intercourse with people of superior station, all that is required is not to be perfectly natural, but always to keep within the line of a certain conventional propriety.
In jedem Menschen ist etwas von allen Menschen
In judicando criminosa est celeritas
In just and equal measure all is weighed; / One scale contains the sum of human weal, / And one, the good man's heart.
In King Cambyses' vein.
In lapidary inscriptions a man is not upon oath.
In learning anything, its first principles alone
should be taught by constraint.
In letters, if anywhere, we look for the man, not for the author.
In life a friend may be often found and lost; but an old friend never can be found, and Nature has provided that he cannot easily be lost.
In life, as in art, the beautiful moves in curves.
In life every situation may bring its own peculiar pleasures.
In life there is no present.
In limine
In literature to-day there are plenty good masons, but few good architects.
In loco parentis
In long-drawn systole and long-drawn diastole must the period of faith alternate with the period of denial; must the vernal growth, the summer luxuriance of all opinions, spiritual representations and creations, be followed by and again follow the autumnal decay, the winter dissolution.
In love all is risk.
In love we are all fools alike.
In love we never think of moral qualities, and scarcely of intellectual ones. Temperament and manner alone, with beauty, excite love.
In loving thou dost well, in passion not, / Wherein true love consists not.
In magnis et voluisse sat est
In maiden meditation, fancy-free.
In manners tranquillity is the supreme power.
In marriage, as in other things, contentment excels wealth.
In matters of conscience, first thoughts are best; in matters of prudence, last thoughts are best.
In mediæval art, thought is the first thing, execution the second; in modern art, execution is the first thing and thought the second.
In mediæval art, truth is first, beauty second; in modern art, beauty is first, truth second.
In medias res
In medio tutissimus ibis
In medio virtus
In meinem Revier / Sind Gelehrten gewesen / Ausser ihrem Brevier / Konnten sie keines lesen
In meinem Staate kann jeder nach seiner Façon selig werden
In melle sunt sitæ linguæ vestræ atque orationes, / Corda felle sunt lita atque aceto
In memoriam
In men we various ruling passions find; / In
women, two almost divide the mind; / Those, only fix'd, they first or last obey, / The love of pleasure and the love of sway.
In mercatura facienda multæ fallaciæ et quasi præstigiæ exercentur
In misfortune, in error, and when the time appointed for certain affairs is about to elapse, a servant who hath his master's welfare at heart ought to speak unasked.
In moderating, not in satisfying desires, lies peace.
In modern England the ordinary habits of life and modes of education produce great plainness of mind in middle-aged women.
In morals, as in art, saying is nothing, doing
is all.
In morals good-will is everything, but in art it is ability.
In morals, what begins in fear usually ends in wickedness; in religion, what begins in fear usually ends in fanaticism.
In much corn is some cockle.
In much wisdom is much grief, and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.
In my Father's house are many mansions.
In my virtue
In Nature there's no blemish but the mind; / None can be called deformed but the unkind.
In Nature things move violently to their places, and calmly in their place; so virtue in ambition is violent, in authority settled and calm.
In Nature we never see anything isolated, but everything in connection with something else which is before it, beside it, under it, and over it.
In necessariis unitas, in dubiis libertas, in
omnibus charitas
In nine cases out of ten, the evil tongue belongs to a disappointed man.
In no time or epoch can the Highest be spoken of in words--not in many words, I think, ever.
In nocte consilium
In nomine
In nomine Domini incipit omne malum
In nubibus
In nuce Ilias
In obscuro
In old age nothing any longer astonishes us.
In old times men used their powers of painting
to show the objects of faith; in later times they used the objects of faith to show their powers of painting.
In omni re vincit imitationem veritas
In omnia paratus
In omnibus quidem, maxime tamen in jure, æquitas est
In one thing men of all ages are alike; they have believed obstinately in themselves.
In oratory the will must predominate.
In order to do great things, it is necessary to live as if one were never to die.
In order to love mankind, we must not expect too much of them.
In order to manage an ungovernable beast, he must be stinted in his provender.
In our age of down-pulling and disbelief, the very devil has been pulled down; you cannot so much as believe in a devil.
In our fine arts, not imitation, but creation, is
the aim.
In our judgment of human transactions the law of optics is reversed; we see the most indistinctly the objects which are close around us.
In our own breast, there or nowhere flows the fountain of true pleasure.
In pace leones, in prælio cervi
In pain is a new time born.
In pari materia
In partibus infidelium
In peace, there's nothing so becomes a man / As modest stillness and humility; / But when the blast of war blows in our ears, / Then imitate the action of the tiger; / Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood, / Disguise fair Nature with hard-favour'd rage, / Then lend the eye a terrible aspect; / Let it pry through the portage of the head / Like the brass cannons.
In peace, who is not wise?
In perfect wedlock, the man, I should say, is the head, but the woman the heart, with which he cannot dispense.
In perpetuam rei memoriam
In pertusum ingerimus dicta dolium
In petto
In pios usus
In Plato's opinion, man was made for philosophy; in Bacon's opinion, philosophy was made for man.
In pleno
In politics, as in life, we must above all things wish only for the attainable.
In politics, merit is rewarded by the possessor being raised, like a target, to a position to be fired at.
In politics, what begins in fear usually ends
in folly.
In pontificalibus
In portu quies
In posse
In practical life, the wisest and soundest men avoid speculation.
In præsenti
In pretio pretium est; dat census honores, / Census amicitias; pauper ubique jacet
In pride, in reasoning pride, our error lies; / All quit their sphere and rush into the skies.
In principatu commutando, civium / Nil præter domini nomen mutant pauperes
In private grieve, but with a careless scorn; / In public seem to triumph, not to mourn.
In proportion as one simplifies his life, the
laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness.
In propria persona
In prosperity caution, in adversity patience.
In prosperity no altars smoke.
In puris naturalibus
In quietness and in confidence shall be your
strength.
In quite common things much depends on choice and determination, but the highest which falls to our lot comes from no man knows whence.
In radiant, all-irradiating insight, a burning interest, and the glorious, melodious, perennial veracity that results from these two, lies the soul of all worth in all speaking men.
In re
In referenda gratia, debemus imitari agros fertiles qui plus multo afferunt quam acceperunt
In regard to a book, the main point is what it
brings me, what it suggests to me.
In regard to virtue, each one finds certainty by consulting his own heart.
In religion as in friendship, they who profess most are ever the least sincere.
In religion, the sentiment is all; the ritual or ceremony indifferent.
In religion / What damnéd error but some sober brow / Will bless it and approve it with a text?
In rerum natura
In resolving to do our work well, is the only sound foundation of any religion whatsoever; and by that resolution only, and what we have done, and not by our belief, Christ will judge us, as He has plainly told us He will.
In reverence is the chief joy and power of life.
In Rome the Ten Commandments consist of the ten letters, Da pecuniam, Give money.
In sæcula sæculorum
In sanguine fœdus
In saying aye or no, the very safety of our country and the sum of our well-being lies.
In science read the newest works; in literature, the oldest.
In science the new is an advance; but in morals, as contradicting our inner ideals and historic idols, it is ever a retrogression.
In science we have to consider two things: power and circumstance.
In se magna ruunt
In seipso totus, teres, atque rotundus
In self-trust all the virtues are comprehended.
In serum rem trahere
In service, care or coldness / Doth ratably thy fortunes mar or make.
In situ
In small proportion we just beauties see, / And in short measures life may perfect be.
In so complex a thing as human nature, we must consider it hard to find rules without exceptions.
In solitude the mind gains strength and learns to lean upon itself.
In solo Deo salus
In solo vivendi causa palato est
In some men a certain mediocrity of mind helps to make them wise.
In some men there is a malignant passion to destroy the works of genius, literature, and freedom.
In some sort, love is greater than God.
In some things all, in all things none, are crossed.
In spite of all his faults, there is no creature
worthier of affection than man.
In spite of all misfortunes, there is still enough to satisfy one.
In spite of all the evil that is said of the unfortunates, kings sometimes have their good qualities too.
In spite of seeming difference, men are all of one pattern.
In statu quo
In stinting wisdom, greatest wisdom lies.
In such a world as this a man who is rich in himself is like a bright, warm, happy room at Christmastide, while without are the frost and snow of a December night.
In taking revenge, a man is but even with his enemy; but in passing it over, he is superior.
In tale or history your beggar is ever the first antipode to your king.
In tenui labor, at tenuis non gloria
In terrorem
In that fire-whirlwind
creation and destruction proceed together; ever as the ashes of the old are blown out, do organic filaments of the new mysteriously spin themselves; and amid the rushing and waving of the whirlwind element come tones of a melodious death-song, which end not but in tones of a more melodious birth-song.
In the adversity of our best friends we always find something that does not altogether displease us.
In the balance, hero dust / Is vile as vulgar clay: / Thou, mortality, art just / To all that pass away.

In the career of nations no less than of men,
the error of their intellect and the hardening of their hearts may be accurately measured by their denial of spiritual power.
In the catalogue ye go for men.
In the childhood of nations speaking was singing; let this be repeated in the childhood of the individual.
In the coldest flint there is hot fire.
In the confidence of youth man imagines that very much is under his control; in the disappointment of old age, very little.
In the darkest spot on earth / Some love is
found.
In the degree in which you delight in the life of any creature, you can see it; not otherwise.
In the denial of self is the beginning of all that is truly generous and noble.
In the destitution of the wild desert does our young Ishmael acquire for himself the highest of all possessions, that of self-help.
In the divine commandment, "Thou shalt not steal," if well understood, is comprised the whole Hebrew decalogue, with Solon's and Lycurgus's constitutions, Justinian's pandects, the Code Napoleon, and all codes, catechisms, divinities, moralities whatsoever that man has devised (and enforced with altar-fire and gallows-ropes) for his social guidance.
In the division of the inheritance, friendship
standeth still.
In the dullest existence there is a sheen of inspiration or of madness (thou partly hast it in thy choice which of the two) that gleams in from the circumambient eternity, and colours with its own hues our little islet of time.
In the dusk the plainest writing is illegible.
In the end / Things will mend.
In the end we retain from our studies only that which we practically apply.
In the evening one may praise the day.
In the exact proportion in which men are bred capable of warm affection, common-sense, and self-command, and are educated to love, to think, and to endure, they become noble, live happily, die calmly, are remembered with perpetual honour by their race, and for the perpetual good of it.
In the eye of the Supreme, dispositions hold the place of actions.
In the face of every human being his history stands plainly written, his innermost nature steps forth to the light; yet they are the fewest who can read and understand.
In the fact that hero-worship exists, has existed, and will for ever exist universally among mankind, mayest thou discern the cornerstone of living rock, whereon all politics for the remotest time may stand secure.
In the family where the house-father rules
secure, there dwells the peace
thou wilt in vain seek for elsewhere in the wide world outside.
In the field none other can supply our place, each must stand alone,--on himself must rely.
In the fine arts, as in many other things, we know well only what we have not learned.
In the fog of good and evil affections, it is hard for man to walk forward in a straight line.
In the godlike only has man strength and freedom.
In the good as well as in the evil of life, less
depends upon what befalls us than upon the way in which we take it.
In the great duel
In the great hand of God I stand.
In the grimmest rocky wildernesses of existence there are blessed well-springs, there is an everlasting guiding star.
In the hands of genius the driest stick becomes an Aaron's rod, and buds and blossoms out in poetry.
In the husband, wisdom; in the wife, gentleness.
In the interchange of thought use no coin but gold and silver.
In the land of promise a man may die of hunger.
In the lexicon of youth, which fate reserves for a bright manhood, there is no such word as fail.
In the meanest hut there is a romance, if you knew the hearts there.
In the midst of life we are in death.
In the midst of the sun is the light, in the midst of the light is the truth, and in the midst of the truth is the imperishable being.
In the mind, as in a field, though some things may be sown and carefully brought up, yet what springs naturally is the most pleasing.
In the mirror we see the face; in wine, the
heart.
In the modesty of fearful duty / I read as much as from the rattling tongue / Of saucy and audacious eloquence.
In the morning mountains; / In the evening fountains.
In the morning of life, work; in the mid-day, give counsel; in the evening, pray.
In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thine hand: for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good.
In the multitude of words there wanteth not
sin.
In the ordinary concerns of life, moral energy is more serviceable than brilliant parts; while in the more important, these latter are of little weight without it, evaporating only in brief and barren flashes.
In the perishable petals of the flower there resides more spirit and life than in the lumpish granite boulder that has defied the tear and wear of thousands of years.
In the place where the tree falleth, there it shall lie.
In the pursuit of intellectual pleasure lies every virtue; of sensual, every vice.
In the religion of Christ, as in the philosophy
of Hegel, the negative principle is the creative, or determinative, principle. Christianity begins in No, subsists in No, and survives in No, to the spirit of the world; this it at first peremptorily spurns, and then calmly disregards as of no account.
In the same measure in which you wish to receive, you must give. If you wish for a whole heart, give a whole life.
In the smallest cottage there is room enough for two lovers.
In the spiritual world, as in the astronomical, it is the earth that turns and produces the phenomena of the heavens.
In the spiritual world there is properly no in and no out.
In the state nobody can enjoy life in peace,
but everybody must govern; in art, nobody will enjoy what has been produced, but every one wants to reproduce on his own account.
In the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat thy bread.
In the true Utopia, man will rather harness himself with his oxen to his plough, than leave the devil to drive it.
In the unhappy man forget the foe.
In the utmost solitudes of Nature, the existence of hell seems to me as legibly declared by a thousand spiritual utterances as that of heaven.
In the way of righteousness is life; and in the
pathway thereof there is no death.
In the wilderness of life there are springs and palm-trees.
In the winter, warmth stands for all virtue.
In the works of many celebrated authors men are mere personifications. We have not a jealous man, but jealousy; not a traitor, but perfidy; not a patriot, but patriotism. The mind of Bunyan, on the contrary, was so imaginative that personifications, when he dealt with them, became men.
In the world's opinion marriage, as in a play, winds up everything; whereas it is, in fact, the beginning of everything.
In the world-strife now waging, the victory
cannot be by violence; and every conquest under the Prince of War retards the standards of the Prince of Peace.
In the wreck of noble lives / Something immortal still survives.
In theatro ludus
In these days, whether we like it or not, the power is with the tongue.
In these sick days, when the born of heaven first descries himself in a world such as ours, richer than usual in two things, in truths grown obsolete, and trades grown obsolete--what can the fool think but that it is all a den of lies, wherein whoso will not speak lies and act lies must stand idle and despair?
In these times we fight for ideas, and newspapers
are our fortresses.
In things pertaining to enthusiasm, no man is sane who does not know how to be insane on proper occasions.
In things that may have a double sense, it is good to think the better was intended; so shall we still both keep our friends and quietness.
In this blunder still you find, / All think their little set mankind.
In this theatre of man's life, it is reserved only for God and angels to look on.
In this wild element of a life, man has to
struggle onwards; now fallen, deep-abased; and ever, with tears, repentance, with bleeding heart, he has to rise again, struggle again, still onwards. That his struggle be a faithful, unconquerable one--that is the question of questions.
In this world, full often our joys are only the tender shadows which our sorrows cast.
In this world it is not what we take up, but what we give up, that makes us rich.
In this world there is one godlike thing, the essence from first to last of all of godlike in it--the veneration done to human worth by the hearts of men.
In thy breast are the stars of thy fate.
In thy thriving still misdoubt some evil: / Lest
gaining gain on thee, and make thee dim / To all things else.
In time comes he whom God sends.
In time the savage bull doth bear the yoke.
In time we hate that which we often fear.
In times of anarchy one may seem a despot in order to be a saviour.
In times of danger it is proper to be alarmed
until danger be near at hand; but when we perceive that danger is near, we should oppose it as if we were not afraid.
In times of misfortune men's understandings even are sullied.
In times of necessity the words of the wise are worthy to be observed.
In too much disputing truth is lost.
In totidem verbis
In toto
In toto et pars continetur
In transitu
In treachery it is not the fraud, but the cold-heartedness, that is chiefly dreadful.
In trinitate robur
In true marriage lies / Nor equal, nor unequal:
each fulfils / Defect in each, and always thought in thought, / Purpose in purpose, will in will, they grow, / The single pure and perfect animal, / The two-cell'd heart beating, with one full stroke, / Life.
In turbas et discordias pessimo cuique plurima vis
In unoquoque virorum bonorum habitat Deus
In usum Delphini
In utero
In utramvis dormire aurem
In utraque fortuna paratus
In utroque fidelis
In vacuo
In vain do they talk of happiness who never subdued an impulse in obedience to a principle.
In vain does the mill clack / If the miller his
hearing lack.
In veritate religionis confido
In veritate victoria
In vino veritas
In vitium ducit culpæ fuga
In water you may see your own face; in wine
the heart of another.
In well-regulated civil society there is scarcely a more melancholy suffering to be undergone than what is forced on us by the neighbourhood of an incipient player on the flute or violin.
In wenig Stunden / Hat Gott das Rechte gefunden
In wonder all philosophy began; in wonder it ends; and admiration fills up the interspace.
In wonder the spirits fly not as in fear, but only settle.
In working well, if travail you sustain, / Into
the wind shall lightly pass the pain, / But of the deed the glory shall remain.
In works of labour or of skill, / I would be busy too, / For Satan finds some mischief still / For idle hands to do.
In writing readily, it does not follow that you write well; but in writing well, you must be able to write readily.
In your own country your name, in other countries your appearance.
In youth and beauty wisdom is but rare.
In youth it is too early, in old age it is too late
to marry.
In youth, one has tears without grief; in age, grief without tears.
Inactivity cannot be led to good.
Inanis verborum torrens
Incedis per ignes / Suppositos cineri doloso
Incedit in Scyllam qui vult vitare Charybdim
Incendit omnem feminæ zelus domum
Incense is a tribute for gods only but a poison for mortals.
Inceptis gravibus plerumque et magna professis, / Purpureus, late qui splendeat, unus et alter / Adsuitur pannus
Incerta hæc si tu postules / Ratione certa facere, nihilo plus agas, / Quam si des operam ut cum ratione insanias
Incerta pro nullis habetur
Incerti sunt exitus belli
Incertum est quo te loco mors expectet; itaque in omni loco illam expecta
Incessant scribbling is death to thought.
Incessu patuit Dea
Incidents ought not to govern policy; but
policy, incidents.
Inclusio unius est exclusio alterius
Incoctum generoso pectus honesto
Inconsiderate persons do not think till they they speak; or they speak, and then think.
Inconsistencies of opinion, arising from changes of circumstances, are often justifiable.
Increased means and increased leisure are the two civilisers of men.
Incrédules les plus crédules
Incudi reddere
Inde datæ leges ne fortior omnia posset
Inde iræ et lacrimæ
Indecision and delay are the parents of failure.
Independence, in all kinds, is rebellion; if unjust
rebellion, why parade it and everywhere prescribe it.
Independence, in all kinds, is rebellion. Were your superiors worthy to govern, and you worthy to obey, reverence for them were even your only possible freedom.
Independence, like honour, is a rocky island without a beach.
Independence you had better cease to talk of, for you are dependent not only on every act of people whom you never heard of, who are living round you, but on every past act of what has been dust for a thousand years.
Index expurgatorius
Indica tigris agit rabida cum tigride pacem /
Perpetuam: sævis inter se convenit ursis. / Ast homini ferrum letale incude nefanda / Produxisse parum est
Indictum sit
Indigestion is the devil--nay, 'tis the devil and all. It besets a man in every one of his senses.
Indigna digna habenda sunt hæres quæ facit
Indignant good sense is often the perfection of absurdity.
Indignante invidia florebit justus
Indigne vivit per quem non vivit alter
Indignor quidquam reprehendi, non quia crasse / Compositum, illepideve putetur, sed quia nuper
Individuality is everywhere to be spared and respected, as the root of everything good.
Individuality is of far more account than nationality.
Individually man is a weak being, but strong
in union with others.
Individuals may form communities, but it is institutions alone can create a nation.
Individuals must be modest, but modesty degrades nations.
Indocilis pauperiem pati
Indocilis privata loqui
Indocti discant, et ament meminisse periti
Indolence and stupidity are first cousins.
Indolence is the paralysis of the soul.
Indolence is the sleep of the mind.
Industria floremus
Industriæ nil impossibile
Industry is Fortune's right hand, and Frugality her left.
Industry is the parent of success.
Industry is the parent of virtue.
Industry need not wish.
Indutus virtute ab alto
Inest et formicæ sua bilis
Inest sua gratia parvis
Inest virtus et mens interrita lethi
Infancy is the perpetual Messiah, which comes into the arms of fallen men, and pleads with them to return to Paradise.
Infancy presents body and spirit in unity; the
body is all animated.
Infandum, regina, jubes renovare dolorem
Infecta pace
Inferior poetry is an injury to the good, inasmuch as it takes away the freshness of rhymes, blunders upon and gives a wretched commonality to good thoughts, and, in general, adds to the weight of human weariness in a most woeful and culpable manner.
Infidelity is not always built upon doubt, for this is diffident; nor philosophy always upon wisdom, for this is meek; but pride is neither.
Infidelity, like death, admits of no degrees.
Infinite is the help man can yield to man.
Infinite pity, yet also infinite rigour of law; it is so Nature is made.
Infinite toil would not enable you to sweep away a mist; but, by ascending a little, you may often overlook it altogether.
Inflatum plenumque Nerone propinquo
Inflict not on an enemy every injury in your
power, for he may afterwards become your friend.
Influence is to be measured not by the extent of surface it covers, but by its kind.
Infra dignitatem
Ingenii largitor venter
Ingeniis patuit campus, certusque merenti / Stat favor: ornatur propriis industria donis
Ingenio facies conciliante placet
Ingenio non ætate adipiscitur sapientia
Ingenio stat sine morte decus
Ingeniorum cos æmulatio
Ingenium ingens / Inculto latet hoc sub corpore
Ingenium mala sæpe movent
Ingenium res adversæ nudare solent, celare secundæ
Ingens telum necessitas
Ingentes animos angusto in corpore versant
Ingenuas didicisse fideliter artes / Emollit mores, nec sinit esse feros
Ingrata patria, ne ossa quidem habebis
Ingratis servire nefas
Ingratitude and compassion never cohabit in the same breast.
Ingratitude drieth up wells, / And time bridges fells.
Ingratitude is a crime so shameful, that the man was never yet found who would acknowledge himself guilty of it.
Ingratitude! thou marble-hearted fiend, / More
hideous, when thou show'st thee in a child, / Than the sea-monster.
Ingratus est qui remotis testibus agit gratiam
Ingratus unus miseris omnibus nocet
Inimicus et invidus vicinorum oculus
Iniqua nunquam regna perpetua manent
Iniquum est aliquem rei sui esse judicem
Initia magistratuum nostrorum meliora ferme, et finis inclinat
Initium est salutis, notitia peccati
Injuria absque damno
Injuriæ spretæ exolescunt, si irascaris agnitæ videntur
Injuriam qui facturus est jam facit
Injuriarum remedium est oblivio
Injuries come only from the heart.
Injusta ab justis impetrare non decet; / Justa autem ab injustis petere, insipientia est
Inmost things are all melodious, naturally utter themselves in song. The meaning of song goes deep.
Innocence has a friend in heaven.
Innocence is a flower which withers when touched, and blooms not again though watered with tears.
Inopem me copia fecit
Inopi beneficium bis dat, qui dat celeriter
Inops, potentem dum vult imitari, perit
Inquinat egregios adjuncta superbia mores
Inquisitiveness as seldom cures jealousy as drinking in a fever quenches the thirst.
Ins Innre der Natur / Dringt kein erschaffner Geist. / Glückselig, wem sie nur / Die äussre Schale weist
Insani sapiens nomen ferat, æquus iniqui, / Ultra quod satis est virtutem si petat ipsam
Insanire parat certa ratione modoque
Insanity is often the logic of an accurate
mind overtasked.
Insanus omnis furere credit cæteros
Insculpsit
Inservi Deo et lætare
Insipientis est dicere, Non putarem
Insita hominibus natura violentiæ resistere
Insita mortalibus natura, propere sequi quæ piget inchoare
Insolence is pride when her mask is pulled off.
Insouciance
Insperata accidunt magis sæpe quam quæ speres
Inspicere, tanquam in speculum, in vitas omnium / Jubeo, atque ex aliis sumere exemplum sibi
Inspiration must find answering inspiration.
Inspirations that we deem our own are our
divine foreshadowing and foreseeing of things beyond our reason and control.
Inspiring bold John Barleycorn! / What dangers thou canst make us scorn!
Instar omnium
Instead of the piteous and frightful figure of Death, stepping whip to hand by the peasant's side in the field, ... place there a radiant angel, sowing with full hands the blessed grain in the smoking furrow.
Instead of watching the bird as it flies above our heads, we chase his shadow along the ground; and, finding we cannot grasp it, we conclude it to be nothing.
Instinct is a great matter; I was a coward on
instinct.
Instinct is intelligence incapable of self-consciousness.
Instruction does much, but encouragement everything.
Intaminatis fulget honoribus
Integer vitæ scelerisque purus / Non eget Mauris jaculis neque arcu
Integrity gains strength by use.
Integrity is the shortest and nearest way to our end, carrying us thither in a straight line, and will hold out and last longest.
Integrity without knowledge is weak and useless, and knowledge without integrity is dangerous and dreadful.
Intellect annuls fate; so far as a man thinks, he is free.
Intellect is aristocratic; charity is democratic.
Intellect is not speaking and logicising; it
is seeing and ascertaining.
Intellect lies behind genius, which is intellect constructive.
Intellectual fairness is often only another name for indolence and inconclusiveness of mind, just as love of truth is sometimes a fine phrase for temper.
Intellectual tasting of life will not supersede muscular activity.
Intelligabilia, non intellectum, fero
Intemperans adolescentia effetum corpus
tradet senectuti
Intemperate wits will spare neither friend nor foe, and make themselves the common enemies of mankind.
Intense study of the Bible will keep any man from being vulgar in point of style.
Inter alia
Inter amicos omnium rerum communitas
Inter arma leges silent
Inter canem et lupum
Inter cetera mala, hoc quoque habet stultitia proprium, semper incipit vivere
Inter delicias semper aliquid sævi nos strangulat
Inter Græcos græcissimus, inter Latinos latinissimus
Inter malleum et incudem
Inter nos
Inter nos sanctissima divitiarum / Majestas
Inter pueros senex
Inter spem curamque, timores inter et iras, / Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum: / Grata superveniet quæ non sperabitur hora
Inter sylvas Academi quærere verum
Inter utrumque tene
Inter vivos
Interdum lacrymæ pondera vocis habent
Interdum stultus bene loquitur
Interdum vulgus rectum videt, est ubi peccat
Interea gustus elementa per omnia quærunt, / Nunquam animo pretiis obstantibus; interius si / Attendas, magis illa juvant, quæ pluris emuntur
Interest blinds some people and enlightens others.
Interest is the spur of the people, but glory that of great souls.
Interest reipublicæ ut quisque re sua bene utatur
Interest speaks all sorts of tongues, and plays
all sorts of parts, even the part of the disinterested.
Interim fit aliquid
Into a mouth shut flies fly not.
Into contradicting / Be thou never led away; / When with the ignorant they strive, / The wise to folly fall away.
Into each life some rain must fall, / Some days must be dark and dreary.
Intolerabilius nihil est quam fœmina dives
Intra muros
Introite, nam et hic dii sunt
Intuition is the clear conception of the whole
at once. It seldom belongs to man to say without presumption, "I came, I saw, I conquered."
Intus et in cute novi hominem
Intus et in jecore ægro / Nascuntur domini
Intus si recte, ne labora
Intuta quæ indecora
Inveni portum, Spes et Fortuna valete, / Sat
me lusistis, ludite nunc alios
Invent first, and then embellish.
Invention breeds invention.
Invention is the talent of youth, and judgment of age.
Inventions have all been invented over and over fifty times. Man is the arch-machine, of which all these shifts drawn from himself are toy models.
Invia virtuti nulla est via
Invidia gloriæ comes
"Invidia," jealousy of your neighbour's good, has been, since dust was first made flesh, the curse of man; and "charitas," the desire to do your neighbour grace, the one source of all human glory, power and material blessing.
Invidia Siculi non invenere tyranni / Tormentum majus
Invidiam ferre aut fortis aut felix potest
Invidiam placare paras, virtute relicta?
Invidus alterius macrescit rebus opimis
Invidus, iracundus, iners, vinosus, amator, / Nemo adeo ferus est, ut non mitescere possit, / Si modo culturæ patientem commodet aurem
Invisa nunquam imperia retinentur diu
Invisa potentia, atque miseranda vita eorum, qui se metui quam amari malunt
Invita Minerva
Invitat culpam qui peccatum præterit
Invitum qui servat idem facit occidenti
Invitum sequitur honos
Inward cheerfulness is an implicit praise and thanksgiving to Providence under all its dispensations.
Ipsæ rursum concedite sylvæ
Ipse dixit
Ipse docet quid agam: fas est et ab hoste doceri
Ipse Jupiter, neque pluens omnibus placet, neque abstinens
Ipse pavet; nec qua commissas flectat habenas, / Nec scit qua sit iter; nec, si sciat, imperet illis
Ipsissima verba
Ipso facto
Ipso jure
Ir por lana, y volver trasquilado
Ira furor brevis est; animum rege, qui, nisi paret, / Imperat: hunc frenis, hunc tu compesce catena
Ira quæ tegitur nocet; / Professa perdunt
odia vindictæ locum
Irarum tantos volvis sub pectore fluctus?
Iratus cum ad se redit, sibi tum irascitur
Ire tamen restat, Numa quo devenit et Ancus
Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Iron with often handling is worn to nothing.
Irony is an insult conveyed in the form of a compliment.
Irony is jesting hidden behind gravity.
Irremeabilis unda
Irresolution loosens all our joints; like an ague, it shakes not this limb or that limb, but all the body is at once in a fit. The irresolute man hatches nothing, but addles all his actions.
Irritabis crabrones
Irritation, like friction, is likely to generate heat instead of progress.
Irrthum verlässt uns nie; doch ziehet ein höher Bedürfniss immer den strebenden Geist leise zur Wahrheit hinan
Is a man one whit the better because he is grown great in other men's esteem?
Is any place so inaccessible that an ass laden with gold cannot penetrate?
Is beauty vain because it will fade? Then are earth's green robe and heavens light vain.
Is cadet ante senem, qui sapit ante diem
Is common opinion the standard of merit?
Is habitus animorum fuit, ut pessimum facinus auderent pauci, plures vellent, omnes paterentur
Is it in destroying and pulling down that skill is displayed? The shallowest understanding, the rudest hand, is more equal to that task.
Is it not astonishing that the love of repose keeps us in continual agitation?
Is it not strange that men should be so ready
to fight for religion and so reluctant to observe its precepts?
Is it not the same to whoso wears a shoe as if the earth were thatched all over with leather?
Is it right to despair, and shall truth make us sad?
Is maxime divitiis utitur, qui minime divitiis indiget
Is mihi demum vivere et frui anima videtur, qui aliquo negotio intentus, præclari facinoris aut artis bonæ famam quærit
Is mihi videtur amplissimus qui sua virtute in
altiorem locum pervenit
Is not belief the true God-announcing miracle?
Is not cant the
which all falsehoods, imbecilities, abominations body themselves, from which no true thing can come?
Is not light greater than fire? It is the same element in a state of purity.
Is not marriage an open question when it is alleged, from the beginning of the world, that such as are in the institution wish to get out, and such as are out wish to get in?
Is not shame the soil of all virtue, of all good
manners and good morals?
Is ordo vitio careto, cæteris specimen esto
Is sapiens qui se ad casus accommodet omnes; / Stultus pugnat in adversis ire natator aquis
Is that a wonder which happens in two hours; and does it cease to be wonderful if happening in two millions?
 (Chri
Is the God present, felt in my own heart, a thing which Herr von Voltaire will dispute out of me or dispute into me? To the "worship origin and genesis thou pleasest, has not that worship originated and been generated; is it not here? Feel it in thy heart and then say whether it is of God!
Is the jay more precious than the lark because
his feathers are more beautiful?
Is there anything of its own nature beautiful or not beautiful? The beauty of a thing is even that by which it shineth.
Is there evil in a city, and the Lord hath not done it?
Is there for honest poverty / That hangs his head, and a' that? / The coward slave we pass him by, / We dare be poor for a' that.
Is there no God, then? but at best an absentee God, sitting idle, ever since the first Sabbath, at the outside of His universe, and seeing it go?
Is there no stoning save with flint and rock?
Is there no way to bring home a wandering sheep but by worrying him to death?
Is this a dagger which I see before me, / The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee.
Is thy complexion sour? / Then keep such company.
Is your trumpeter dead, that you are obliged to praise yourself?
Isaac's fond blessing may not fall on scorn, /
Nor Balaam's curse on love which God hath blest.
Island ez hinn besta haud sun solinn shinnar uppà
Isolation is the sum-total of wretchedness to a man.
Ist's Gottes Werk, so wird's besteh'n / Ist's Menschenwerk, wird's untergeh'n
Ista decens facies longis vitiabitur annis; / Rugaque in antiqua fronte senilis erit
Istæc in me cudetur faba
Istuc est sapere, non quod ante pedes modo est / Videre, sed etiam illa quæ futura sunt / Prospicere
Istuc est sapere, qui, ubicunque opus sit, animum possis flectere
It
It belongs to great men to have great defects.
It can do us no harm to look at what is extraordinary with our own eyes.
It chanceth in an hour that cometh not in seven years.
It costs more to revenge injuries than to bear
them.
It dawns no sooner for one's early rising.
It exalteth a man from earthly things to love those that are heavenly.
It happens as with cages, the birds without despair to get in, and those within despair of getting out.
It happens to men of learning as to ears of corn; they shoot up and raise their heads high while they are empty; but when full and swelled with grain, they begin to flag and droop.
It has been well said that our anxiety does
not empty to-morrow of its sorrows, but only empties to-day of its strength.
It is a bad trade that of censor; he is sure to incur the hatred of those he censures, without finding them improved by the correction.
It is a beautiful trait in the lover's character, that he thinks no evil of the object loved.
It is a beggarly conception to judge as if poetry should always be capable of a prose rendering.
It is a brave act of valour to contemn death; but when life is more terrible than death, it is then the truest valour to dare to live.
It is a characteristic of true genius to disturb
all settled ideas.
It is a clear gain to sacrifice pleasure in order to avoid pain.
It is a common error to think that in politics legislation is everything and administration nothing.
It is a common failing of old men to attribute all wisdom to themselves.
It is a common law of Nature, which no time will ever change, that superiors shall rule their inferiors.
It is a custom / More honoured in the breach
than the observance.
It is a damnable audacity to bring forth that torturing Cross, and the Holy One who suffers on it, and to expose them to the light of the sun, which hid its face when a reckless world forced such a sight on it; to take these mysterious secrets, in which the divine depth of sorrow lies hid, and play with them, fondle them, trick them out, and rest not till the most reverend of all solemnities appears vulgar and paltry.
It is a delusion
makes man better. As well believe that the rust makes the knife sharp, dirt promotes purity, and mud clarifies the stream.
"It is a devout imagination."
It is a fair and holy office to be a prophet of Nature.
It is a fine thing to command, though it were
but a herd of cattle.
It is a foul bird that dirties its own nest.
It is a golden rule not to judge men according to their opinions, but according to the effect these opinions have on their character.
It is a good divine that follows his own instructions.
It is a good horse that never stumbles, and a good wife that never grumbles.
It is a good thing to stay away till one's company
is desired, but not so good to stay after it is desired.
It is a grave offence to bind a Roman citizen, a crime to flog him, almost the act of a parricide to put him to death; what shall I call crucifying him? Language worthy of such an enormity it is impossible to find.
It is a great ease to have one in our own shape a species below us, and who, without being enlisted in our service, is by nature of our retinue.
It is a great journey to life's end.
It is a great misfortune not to possess talent enough to speak well, or sense enough to hold one's tongue.
It is a great mistake to think that because
you have read a masterpiece once or twice or ten times, therefore you have done with it.... You ought to live with it and make it part of your daily life.
It is a great piece of folly to sacrifice the inner for the outer man.
It is a great pity when the man who should be the head figure is a mere figure-head.
It is a great point of wisdom to find out one's own folly.
It is a great shame to a man to have a poor heart and a rich purse.
It is a great sin to swear unto a sin, / But a
greater still to keep a sinful oath.
It is a great step in finesse to make people under-estimate your acuteness.
It is a hard winter when one wolf eats another.
It is a kindly spirit which actually constitutes the human element in man.
It is a long lane that has no turning.
It is a long way from granite to the oyster;
farther yet to Plato, and the preaching of the immortality of the soul.
It is a low benefit to give me something; it is a high benefit to enable me to do somewhat of myself.
It is a lucky eel that escapes skinning.
It is a main lesson of wisdom to know your own from another's.
It is a man's sincerity and depth of vision that makes him a poet.
It is a mathematical fact that the casting of a pebble from my hand alters the centre of gravity of the universe.
It is a maxim of those who are esteemed perfect, that abundance is the perverter of reason.
It is a mere and miserable solitude to want true friends, without which the world is but a wilderness.
It is a moral impossibility that any son or daughter of Adam can stand on any ground that mortal treads, and gainsay the healthy tenure on which we hold our existence.
It is a poor art that the artisan can't live by.
It is a poor heart that never rejoices.
It is a poor horse that is not worth its oats.
It is a poor mouse that has but one hole.
It is a poor sport that is not worth the candle.
It is a profound error to presume that everything
has been discovered; it is to take the horizon which bounds the eye for the limit of the world.
It is a proof of mediocrity of intellect to be addicted to relating stories.
It is a rare thing, except it be from a perfect and entire friend, to have counsel given us, but such as shall be bowed and crooked to some ends which he hath that giveth it.
It is a reproach to be the first gentleman of one's race, but greater to be the last.
It is a sad house where the hen crows louder than the cock.
It is a shame for a man to desire honour because
of his ancestors, and not to deserve it by his own virtue.
It is a sign that your reputation is small or sinking if your own tongue must praise you.
It is a sin against hospitality to open your doors and shut up your countenance.
It is a small virtue to keep silence on matters, but a grave fault to speak of what should be kept silent.
It is a sorry goose that will not baste itself.
It is a strange habit of wise humanity to speak
in enigmas only.
It is a universal weakness of human nature to have an inordinate faith in things unseen and unknown, and to be affected unduly by them.
It is a very good world to live in, / To lend, or to spend, or to give in; / But to beg, or to borrow, or to get a man's own, / It is the very worst world that ever was known.
It is a very risky, nay, a fatal thing, to be sociable.
It is a virtue in hermits to forgive their enemies as well as their friends; but it is a fault in princes to show clemency towards those who are guilty.
It is a wise father that knows his own child.
It is absurd to contend for any sense of words in opposition to usage; for all senses are founded upon usage, and upon nothing else.
It is advisable that a man should know at least three things:--first, where he is; secondly, where he is going; thirdly, what he had best do under the circumstances.
It is all in my eye
It is allowed by the laws of war to deceive an enemy by feints, false colours, spies, false intelligence, or the like; but by no means in treaties, truces, signals of capitulation or surrender.
It is always an ease, and sometimes a happiness,
to have nothing.
It is always by adventurers that great deeds are done, and not by the sovereigns of great empires.
It is always good when a man has two irons in the fire.
It is always necessary to show some good opinion of those whose good opinion we solicit.
It is always term time in the court of conscience.
It is always the individual, not the age, that
stands up for the truth.
It is always vitally important to ourselves to be scrupulously true.
It is an argument of great wisdom to do nothing rashly, nor to be obstinate and inflexible in our opinions.
It is an assured sign of a worthy and generous spirit whom honour amends; for honour is, or should be, the place of virtue.
It is an egregious error to go by the exception instead of the rule.
It is an equal failing to trust everybody and
to trust nobody.
It is an honour for a man to cease from strife.
It is an ill sign to see a fox lick a lamb.
It is an ill wind that blows nobody good.
It is as difficult to appropriate the thoughts of others as to invent.
It is as easy to be a scholar as a gamester.
It is as easy to deceive one's self without perceiving it, as it is difficult to deceive others without their finding it out.
It is as great a point of wisdom to hide ignorance, as to discover knowledge.
It is as little the part of a wise man to reflect much on the nature of beings above him as of beings beneath him.
It is as much a part of true temperance to be pleased with the little that we know and the little that we can do as with the little that we have.
It is as much intemperance to weep too much
as to laugh too much.
It is as natural for the old to be prejudiced as for the young to be presumptuous; and in the change of centuries each generation has something to judge for itself.
It is as rare as it is pleasant to meet an old man whose opinions are not ossified.
It is as sport to a fool to do mischief.
It is at least fatal to the philosophic pretension of a line or stanza if, when it is fairly reduced to prose, the prose discloses that it is nonsense.
It is bad, having once known the right, / And the impulse of nobleness prized, / To accept the less worthy, and order the fight / For a cause that is meaner, and walk by a light / That you once had despised.
It is beneath the dignity of a soul that has but a grain of sense to make chance, and winds, and waves the arbitrary disposers of happiness.
It is best not to be angry; and best, in the next
place, to be quickly reconciled.
It is best to rise from life as from a banquet, neither thirsty nor drunken.
It is best to take half in hand and the rest by and by.
It is best to take with thankfulness and admiration from each man what he has to give.
It is better and kinder to flog a man to his work than to leave him idle till he robs and flog him afterwards.
It is better for a young man to blush than to
turn pale.
It is better for the man whom God helps than for him who rises early.
It is better living on a little than outliving a great deal.
It is better not to live at all than to live dishonoured.
It Is better to be a self-made man, filled up according to God's original pattern, than to be half a man, made after some other man's pattern.
It is better to be affected with a true penitent
sorrow for sin than to be able to resolve the most difficult cases about it.
It is better to be lost than to be saved all alone.
It is better to be nothing than a knave.
It is better to be the hammer than the anvil.
It is better to be the head o' the commonalty than the tail o' the gentry.
It is better to be wrong by rule than to be
wrong with nothing but the fitful caprice of our disposition to impel us.
It is better to cleanse ourselves of our sins now, than to reserve them to be cleansed at some future time.
It is better to create than to be learned. Creating is the essence of life.
It is better to die once than live always in fear of death.
It is better to do well than to say well.
It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop
than with a brawling woman in a wide house.
It is better to fight for the good than to rail at the ill.
It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the house of feasting.
It is better to have a lion at the head of an army of sheep than a sheep at the head of an army of lions.
It is better to have friends in our passage through life than grateful dependants; and as love is a more willing, so it is a more lasting tribute than extorted obligation.
It is better to have loved and lost than never
to have loved at all.
It is better to have one's evil days when one is young than when one is old.
It is better to have to do with God than with His saints.
It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools.
It is better to live by begging one's bread than to gratify the mouth at the expense of others.
It is better to live in a haunted forest ... than
to live amongst relations after the loss of wealth.
It is better to live on the crust of your own industry than on the fruits of other people's.
It is better to make friends than adversaries of a conquered race.
It is better to trust the eye than the ear.
It is bitter fare eating one's own words.
It is but the outer hem of God's great mantle
our poor stars do gem.
It is but vain to waste honey on those that will be caught with gall.
It is by attempting to reach the top by a single leap that so much misery is produced in the world.
It is by being conversant with the inventions of others that we learn to invent, as by reading the thoughts of others we learn to think.
It is by faith that poetry as well as devotion soars above this dull earth.
It is by his personal conduct that any man of
ordinary power will do the greatest amount of good that is in him to do.
It is by imitation, more than by precept, that we learn anything.
It is by presence of mind in untried circumstances that the native metal of a man is tested.
It is by study that we become contemporaries of every age and citizens of the world.
It is certain my belief gains quite infinitely the moment I can convince another mind thereof.
It is certain that either wise bearing or
ignorant carriage is caught as men take diseases, one of another.
It is character which builds an existence out of circumstance. Our strength is measured by our plastic power.
It is cheap enough to say, "God help you."
It is common to esteem most what is unknown.
It is commonly the imagination which is wounded first, rather than the heart; it is so much more sensitive.
It is courage that conquers in war, and not good weapons.
It is cowardly to quit the post the gods elect for us before they permit us.
It is delightful, after wandering in the thick darkness of metaphysics, to behold again the fair face of Truth.
It is delightful to transport one's self into the spirit of the past, to see how a wise man has thought before us, and to what a glorious height we have at last reached.
It is difficult to act a part long, for where
truth is not at the bottom, nature will peep out and betray itself one time or other.
It is difficult to descend with grace without seeming to fall.
It is difficult to do good without multiplying the sources of evil.
It is difficult to feel deep veneration and great affection for one and the same person.
It is difficult to know at what moment love begins; it is less difficult to know that it has begun.
It is difficult to say whether irresolution renders
a man the more unhappy or the more despicable; also whether it is productive of worse consequences to make a bad resolution, or none at all.
It is difficulties that give birth to miracles.
It is dreary
It is doubt
It is downright madness to contend where we are sure to be worsted.
It is easier for a wit to keep fire in his mouth,
than to hold in a witty saying that he is burning to tell.
It is easier not to begin to go wrong than it is to turn back and do better after beginning.
It is easier to carry the world in one's thoughts than on one's shoulders.
It is easier to know man in general than men in particular.
It is easier to suppress the first desire than to satisfy all that follow it.
It is easier to worship than to obey.
It is easier to write an indifferent poem than to understand a good one.
It is easy for a man who sits idle at home, and has nobody to please but himself, to ridicule or censure the common ways of mankind.
It is easy for men to write and talk like philosophers; but to act with wisdom, there's the rub.
It is easy in the world to live after the world's opinion; easy in solitude to live after our own; but the great man is he who in the midst of the crowd keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of solitude.
It is easy to be a spendthrift with other people's
property.
It is easy to condemn; it is better to pity.
It is easy to criticise an author, but it is difficult to appreciate him.
It is easy to give offence, though it is hard to appease.
It is easy to open a shop, but hard to keep it open.
It is easy to screw one's self up into high and
ever higher altitudes of Transcendentalism, and see nothing under one but the everlasting snows of Himalaya, the earth shrinking into a planet, and the indigo firmament sowing itself with daylight stars; but whither does it lead? One dreads always to inanity and mere injuring of the lungs.
It is enough for thee to know what each day wills; and what each day wills the day itself will tell.
It is exactly in the treatment of trifles that a man shows what he is.
It is exceedingly difficult for a man to be as narrow as he could have been had he lived a century ago.
It is excellent / To have a giant's strength, but tyrannous / To use it like a giant.
It is falling in with their own mistaken ideas
that makes fools and beggars of the half of mankind.
It is fancy, not the reason of things, that makes us so uneasy.
It is far better to give work which is above the men than to educate the men to be above their work.
It is far easier to make a great rush than to plod steadily on through a long life.
It is far from universally true that to get a thing you must aim at it. There are some things which can only be gained by renouncing them.
It is far more difficult to be simple than to be
complicated; far more difficult to sacrifice skill and ease exertion in the proper place, than to expend both indiscriminately.
It is folly to lay out money in the purchase of repentance.
It is folly to live in Rome and strive with the Pope.
It is folly to pretend that one ever wholly recovers from a disappointed passion. Such wounds always leave a scar.
It is for the sake of him
of those like him that the earth exists and maintains itself in being.
It is for truth that God created genius.
It is for want of application, rather than of means, that men fail of success.
It is force and right that determine everything in the world; force till right is ready.
It is fortune, not wisdom, that rules man's life.
It is from books that wise men derive consolation in the troubles of life.
It is from the difference we feel between the
finitude of fact and the infinitude of fantasy that all the evils spring which torment humanity.
It is fruition, and not possession, that renders us happy.
It is generally a sign of a small mind to think differently from great minds.
It is given us to live only once in the world.
It is good for a man to be driven, were it by never such harsh methods, into looking at this great universe with his own eyes, for himself and not for another, and trying to adjust himself truly there.
It is good that we sometimes be contradicted,
and that we always bear it well; for perfect peace cannot be had in this world.
It is good to do nothing bad, but better to wish nothing bad.
It is good to fear the worst; the best can save itself.
It is good to lend to God and the soil; they pay good interest.
It is good to rub and polish our brains against that of others.
It is great, it is manly, to disdain disguise.
It is great prudence to gain as many friends as we honestly can, especially when it may be done at so easy a rate as a good word.
It is hard even to the most miserable to die.
It is hard for an empty sack to stand upright.
It is hard to be poor and honest.
It is hard to carry a full cup.
It is hard to kick against the pricks.
It is hard to maintain the truth, but much harder to be maintained by it.
It is hard to put old heads on young shoulders.
It is hard to suffer wrong and pay for it too.
It is harder to avoid censure than to gain applause;
for this may be done by one great or wise action in an age; but to escape censure, a man must pass his whole life without saying or doing one ill or foolish thing.
It is harder to marry a daughter well than to bring her up well.
It is harder to weave than to gather wool.
It is harder work to resist vices and passions, than to toil in bodily labours.
It is his excess of sensibility that distinguishes man from other animals.
It is his moral sentences on mankind or the
state that rank the prose writer among the sages.
It is his restraint which is honourable to a man, not his liberty.
It is human nature to hate him whom you have injured.
It is idleness that creates impossibilities; and where men care not to do a thing, they shelter themselves under a persuasion that it cannot be done.
It is ill standing in dead men's shoes.
It is ill to take out of the flesh what is bred in
the bone.
It is impossible completely to understand what we do not love.
It is impossible for any man to form a right judgment of his neighbour's sufferings.
It is impossible that an ill-natured man can have a public spirit; for how should he love ten thousand men who never loved one?
It is impossible that anything so natural, so necessary, and so universal as death should ever have been designed by Providence as an evil to mankind.
It is impossible to be a hero in anything unless
one is first a hero in faith.
It is impossible to be just, if one is not generous.
It is in great perils we see great acts of daring.
It is in human nature soon to relax when not impelled by personal advantage or disadvantage.
It is in the politic as in the human constitution; if the limbs grow too large for the body, their size, instead of improving, will diminish, the vigour of the whole.
It is in the soul of man, when reverence, love,
intelligence, magnanimity have been developed there, that the Highest can disclose itself face to face in sun-splendour, independent of all cavils and jargonings;--there, of a surety, and nowhere else.
It is in the world that a man, devout or other, has his life to lead, his work waiting to be done.
It is in trifles that the mind betrays itself.
It is in vain for a man to be born fortunate, if he be unfortunate in his marriage.
It is incalculable what by arranging, commanding, and regimenting you can make of men.
It is inconceivable how much wit it requires
to avoid being ridiculous.
It is incredible how much the mind can do to sustain the body.
It is indeed all twilight in this world, a trifle more or less.
It is indeed only in old age that intellectual men attain their sublime expression.
It is infamy to die and not be missed.
It is invariably found that the contented man
is a weak man.
It is joy to think the best we can of human kind.
It is just those who grope with the mole and cling with the bat who are vainest of their sight and of their wings.
It is less difficult to bear misfortunes than to remain uncorrupted by pleasure.
It is madness to make fortune the mistress of events, because in herself she is nothing, but is ruled by prudence.
It is matter of the commonest remark how a
timid man who is in love will show courage, or an indolent man will show diligence.
It is meet / That noble minds keep ever with their likes; / For who so firm that cannot be seduced?
It is mere cowardice to take safety in negations.
It is mere Philistinism on the part of private individuals to bestow too much interest on matters that do not concern them.
It is more blessed to give than to receive.
It is more difficult, and calls for higher energies
of the soul, to live a martyr than to die one.
It is more honourable to be raised to a throne than be born to one; fortune bestows the one, merit obtains the other.
It is more important to discover a new source of happiness on earth than a new planet in the sky.
It is more kindly to laugh at human life than to grin at it.
It is more painful to do nothing than something.
It is more pleasing to see smoke brightening
into flame than flame sinking into smoke.
It is much easier to be critical than to be correct.
It is much easier to bind on a wreath than to find a head worthy to wear it.
It is much easier to recognise error than to find truth; the former lies on the surface, the latter rests in the depths.
It is much more easy to inspire a passion than a faith.
It is much safer to obey than to govern.
It is natural to a man to believe what he wishes to be true, and to believe it because be wishes it.
It is natural to man to regard himself as the final cause of creation.
It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer; but when he is gone his way, then he boasteth.
It is never permitted to any one in heaven to stand behind another and look at the back of his head: for then the influx which is from the Lord is disturbed.
It is never too late to mend.
It is never wise to slip the bonds of discipline.
It is no man's business whether he has genius or not: work he must, whatever he is, but quietly and steadily; and the natural and unforced results of such work will always be the things that God meant him to do, and will be his best.
It is no mean happiness to be seated in the mean.
It is no more in our power to love always than it was not to love.
It is no more possible to prevent thought from
reverting to an ideal than the sea from returning to the shore.
It is no small commendation to manage a little well. He is a good waggoner that can turn in a little room.
It is no such heinous matter to fall afflicted, as, being down, to lie dejected.
It is no wonder man's religion has much suffering in it; no wonder he needs a suffering God.
It is nobler to become great than to be born great.
It is nobler to convert souls than to conquer
kingdoms.
It is not a question how much a man knows, but what use he can make of what he knows.
It is not advisable to reward where men have the tenderness not to punish.
 (_verkörp
It is not always necessary that the true should around spiritually and produce accordance

It is not always necessary that the true should around spiritually and produce accordance 
It is not always necessary that the true should around spiritually and produce accordance  tones like the sound of bells.
It is not an unhealthy
philosophy, but a sturdy morality that is of any profit to us.
It is not because of his toils that I lament for
the poor; we must all toil, or steal, which is worse; no faithful workman finds his task a pastime.... But what I do mourn over is that the lamp of his soul should go out; that no ray of heavenly, or even earthly, knowledge should visit him; but only in the haggard darkness, like two spectres, Fear and Indignation bear him company.
It is not by shirking difficulties that we can remove them or escape them.
It is not enough that a poet possess inspiration; his inspiration must be that of a cultured spirit.
It is not enough to aim; you must hit.
It is not enough to know how to steal; one must know also how to conceal.
It is not enough to know, one must also apply;
it is not enough to will to do, one must also do.
It is not enough to speak, but to speak true.
It is not enough to take steps which may some day lead to a goal; each step must be itself a goal and a step likewise.
It is not every man that can afford to wear a shabby coat.
It is not everybody one would set to choose a horse or a pig; how much less a member of Parliament?
It is not everybody who can bend the bow of
Ulysses, and most men only do themselves a mischief by trying to bend it.
It is not fit to tell others anything but what they can take up. A man understands nothing but what is commensurate with him.
It is not from masters, but from their equals, that youths learn a knowledge of the world.
It is not from nature, but from education and habits, that our wants are chiefly derived.
It is not given to the world to be contented.
It is not good for man to be, especially to work,
alone.
It is not good to have an oar in every one's boat.
It is not good to meddle with divine mysteries.
It is not good to pass by that we dislike, even to gain that which we like; for the water of life becometh mortal when mixed with a poison.
It is not he who gives abuse or blows who affronts, but the view we take of these things as insulting.
It is not his own individual sins that the hero atones for, but original sin
It is not history which educates the conscience;
it is conscience which educates history.
It is not in man that walketh to direct his steps.
It is not juggling that is to be blamed, but much juggling; for the world cannot be governed without it.
It is not lost that comes at last.
It is not merely by virtue of the sunlight that falls now, and the rain and dew which it brings, that we continue here, but by virtue of the sunlight of æons of past ages.
It is not metre, but metre-making agreement
that makes a poem, a thought so passionate and alive, that, like the spirit of a plant or an animal, it has an architect of its own, and adorns nature with a new thing.
It is not poetry, but prose run mad.
It is not possible to buy obedience with money.
It is not proper to place confidence in one who cometh without any apparent cause.
It is not propositions, not new dogmas and a logical exposition of the world, that are our first need; but to watch and tenderly cherish the intellectual and moral sensibilities, those fountains of right thought, and woo them to stay and make their home with us.
It is not quite so easy to do good as those may
imagine who never try.
It is not so much our neighbour's interest as our own that we love him.
It is not so much the being exempt from faults, as the having overcome them, that is an advantage to us.
It is not strength, but art obtains the prize.
It is not the beard that makes the philosopher.
It is not the custom when a prince doth sneeze
to say, as to other persons, "God help you," but only to make a low reverence.
It is not the face which deceives; it is we who deceive ourselves in reading in it what is not there.
It is not the fact that a man has riches which keeps him from the kingdom of heaven, but the fact that riches have him.
It is not the fraud, but the cold-heartedness which is chiefly dreadful in treachery.
It is not the greatness of a man's means that makes him independent, so much as the smallness of his wants.
It is not the insurrections of ignorance that
are dangerous, but the revolts of intelligence.
It is not the knowledge, but the use which is made of it that is productive of real benefit.
It is not the loss of heritage / That makes life poor; It is that, stage by stage, / Some leave us with a lessening faith in man, / And less of love than when our life began.
It is not the manner of noble minds to leave anything half done.
It is not the number of facts he knows, but how much of a fact he is himself, that proves the man.
It is not the punishment, but the crime that is
the disgrace.
It is not the quantity, but the quality of knowledge which determines the mind's dignity.
It is not the reading of many books that is necessary to make a man wise and good, but the well-reading of a few.
It is not the stamp on the coin that gives it its value, though on the bank-note it is.
It is not the victory that constitutes the joy of noble souls, but the combat.
It is not thy works, which are all mortal,
infinitely little, ... but only the spirit thou workest in, that can have worth or continuance.
It is not titles that reflect honour on men, but men on their titles.
It is not to taste sweet things, but to do noble and true things, and vindicate himself under God's heaven as a God-made man, that the poorest son of Adam dimly longs.
It is not, truly speaking, the labour that is divided, but the men; divided into mere segments of men, broken into small fragments and crumbs of life; so that all the little piece of intelligence that is left in a man is not enough to make a pin or a nail, but exhausts itself in making the point of a pin or the head of a nail.
It is not want, but rather abundance that creates avarice.
It is not want of good fortune, want of happiness,
but want of wisdom that man has to dread.
It is not well to make great changes in old age.
It is not what he has, nor even what he does, which directly expresses the worth of a man, but what he is.
It is not wisdom, but ignorance which teaches men presumption.
It is not with saying, "Honey, honey," that sweetness comes into the mouth.
It is not work that kills men, it is worry.
It is not the revolution that destroys the machinery, but the friction.
It is of more importance to teach manners and customs than to establish laws and tribunals.
It is of no use running; to set out betimes is the main point.
It is of some consequence for a man to forego his own inclinations, even in matters of no great importance.
It is often because an author proceeds from the thought to the expression, and the reader from the expression to the thought, that a clear writer is obscure.
It is often easier, as well as more advantageous, to conform to the opinions of others than to persuade them into ours.
It is often even wise to reveal what cannot long remain concealed.
It is one of the wretchednesses of the great
that they have no approved friends.
It is one soul which animates all men.
It is one thing to be tempted, another thing to fall.
It is one thing to see that a line is crooked, and another thing to be able to draw a straight one.
It is one thing to speak much, and another to speak pertinently.
It is only a part of art that can be taught; the
artist needs the whole.
It is only at the first encounter that a face makes its full impression upon us.
It is only because they are not used to taste of what is excellent that the generality of people take delight in silly and insipid things, provided they be new.
It is only by labour that thought can be made healthy, and only by thought that labour can be made happy.
It is only by universals, and never by singulars, that we can think.
It is only God's business to make laws, and
the lawyer's to read and enforce them.
It is only in society that a man's powers can have full play.
It is only in their misery that we recognise the hand and finger of God leading good men to good.
It is only kindred griefs that draw forth our tears, and each weeps really for himself.
It is only men collectively that live the life of man.
It is only necessary to grow old to become
indulgent. I see no fault committed that I have not committed myself.
It is only on reality that any power of action can be based.
It is only people who possess firmness that can possess true gentleness.
It is only reason that teaches silence. The heart teaches us to speak.
It is only rogues who feel the restraints of law.
It is only strict precision of thought that confers
facility of expression.
It is only the finite that has wrought and suffered; the infinite lies stretched in smiling repose.
It is only time that possesses full reality, and our existence lies in it exclusively.
It is only when a man is alone that he is really free.
It is only when it is bent that the bow shows its strength.
It is only with renunciation that life, strictly
speaking, can be said to begin.
It is our relation to circumstances that determines their influence over us. The same wind that carries one vessel into port may blow another off shore.
It is petty expenses that empty the purse.
It is pleasant to die if there be gods, and sad to live if there be none.
It is possible to sin against charity, when we do not sin against truth.
It is precisely in accepting death as the end
of all and in laying down, on that sorrowful condition, his life for his friends, that the hero and patriot of all time has become the glory and safety of his country.
It is profound ignorance that inspires a degenerate tone.
It is proof of a high culture to say the greatest matters in the simplest way.
It is proper and beneficial sometimes to be left to thyself.
It is prudent to be on the reserve even with your best friend, when he betrays a too eager curiosity to worm out your secret.
It is rare indeed that there is not ample
occasion for grumbling.
It is religion that has formed the Bible, not the Bible that has formed religion.
It is sad to have to live in a place where all our activity must simmer within ourselves.
It is sad to see how an extraordinary man so often strangles himself, struggling in vain with himself, his circumstances, and his time, without once coming upon a green branch.
It is said no man is a hero to his valet. The reason is that it requires a hero to recognise a hero. The valet, however, will probably know well enough how to estimate his equals.
It is so much easier to do what one has done
before than to do a new thing, that there is a perpetual tendency to a set mode.
It is St. Christopher that carries Christ, not Christ St. Christopher
It is sure to be dark if you shut your eyes.
It is the ambiguous distracted training which they are subject to that makes men uncertain; it awakens wishes when it should quicken tendencies.
It is the best sign of a great nature, that it opens a foreground, and, like the breath of morning landscapes, invites us onward.
It is the best use of fate to teach a fatal courage.
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder, / And that craves wary walking.
It is the cause, not the death, that makes the martyr.
It is the common error of builders and parents to follow some plan they think beautiful (and perhaps is so) without considering that nothing is beautiful which is displaced.
It is the common wonder of all men how, among so many millions of faces, there should be none alike.
It is the company, and not the charge that makes the feast.
It is the condition of humanity to design what
never will be done, and to hope what never will be attained.
It is the curse of kings to be attended / By slaves, that take their humours for a warrant.

It is the curse of talent, that, though it works more surely and persistently than genius, it reaches no goal; while genius, hovering for round, smiling, far above.
It is the dim haze of mystery that adds enchantment to pursuit.
It is the fate of a woman / Long to be patient and silent, to wait like a ghost that is speechless, / Till some questioning voice dissolves the spell of its silence.
It is the fate of the great ones of the earth to
begin to be appreciated by us only after they are gone.
It is the first of all problems for a man to find out what kind of work he is to do in this universe.
It is the first principle of economy to make use of available vital power first, then the inexpensive natural forces, and only at last to have recourse to artificial power.
It is the flash that murders; the poor thunder never harm'd head.
It is the frog's own croak that betrays him.
It is the glistening and softly-spoken lie, ...
the patriotic lie of the historian, the provident lie of the politician, the zealous lie of the partisan, the merciful lie of the friend, and the careless lie of each man to himself, that cast the black mystery over humanity, through which we thank any man who pierces, as we would thank one who had dug a well in the desert.
It is the glorious doom of literature that the evil perishes and the good remains.
It is the great error of reformers and philanthropists in our time to nibble at the consequences of unjust power, instead of redressing the injustice itself.
It is the greatest invention man has ever made, this of marking down the unseen thought that is in him by written characters.
It is the heart that makes the critic, not the nose.
It is the height of folly to throw up attempting
because you have failed. Failures are wonderful elements in developing the character.
It is the inspiration of the Almighty that giveth man understanding.
It is the law of fate that we shall live in part by our own efforts, but in the greater part by the help of others; and that we shall also die in part for our own faults, but in the greater part for the faults of others.
It is the life in literature that acts upon life.
It is the little rift within the lute / That by and by will make the music mute, / And, ever widening, slowly silence all.
It is the lot of man to suffer.
It is the mark of a great man to treat trifles as trifles, and important matters as important.
It is the master-wheel which makes the mill go round.
It is the monotony of his own nature that makes solitude intolerable to a man.
It is the music in the ear that finds and interprets the music of the orchestra.
It is the nature of despair to blind us to all
means of safety.
It is the nature of extreme self-lovers, as they will set an house on fire, an it were but to roast their eggs.
It is the nature of parties to retain their original enmities far more firmly than their original principles.
It is the office of the Church to teach, not to train.
It is the ordinary way of the world to keep folly at the helm, and wisdom under the hatches.
It is the part of a good man to do great and
noble deeds, though he risks everything.
It is the part of a wise man to resist pleasures, but of a foolish one to be a slave to them.
It is the poet's function to keep before the minds of the people not only the underlying truths and beauties of all Nature, but the high and pure ideal of humanity which all should strive to attain.
It is the possession of a great heart or a great head, and not the mere fame of it, which is of worth and conducive to happiness.
It is the power of thought which gives man the mastery over Nature, the thoughts go forth into the world.
It is the privilege of every human work which
is well done, to invest the doer with a certain haughtiness.
It is the privilege of genius that to it life never grows common-place, as to the rest of us.
It is the property of every hero to come back to reality; to stand upon things, not shows of things.
It is the secret of the world that all things subsist, and do not die, but only retire a little from sight, and afterwards return again.
It is the setting up of a claim to happiness that ruins everything in the world.
It is the strange fate of man that even in the
greatest evils the fear of worse continues to haunt him.
It is the temper of the highest hearts, like the palm-tree, to strive most upwards when it is most burdened.
It is the thought writ down we want, / Not its effect, not likenesses of likenesses; / And such descriptions are not, more than gloves / Instead of hands to shake, enough for us.
It is the treating of the common-place with the feeling of the sublime that gives to art its true power.
It is the unseen and spiritual in man that determines the outward and actual.
It is the vain endeavour to make ourselves
what we are not that has strewn history with so many broken purposes and lives left in the rough.
It is the wise alone who are capable of discerning that impartial justice is the truest mercy.
It is the witness still of excellency / To put a strange face on his own perfection.
It is the work of a philosopher to be every day subduing his passions and laying aside his prejudices.
It is through the feeling of wonder that men philosophise.
It is time enough to answer questions when
they are asked.
It is time enough to doff your hat when you see the man.
It is time to fear when tyrants seem to kiss.
It is to be doubted whether he will ever find the way to heaven who desires to go thither alone.
It is too late to husband when all is spent.
It is too late to spare when the bottom is bare.
It is true greatness to have in one the frailty of a man and the security of a god.
It is truth that makes a man angry.
It is useless to attempt to reason a man out of a thing he was never reasoned into.
It is useless to deny with the tongue that which man gives credence to with the heart.
It is very easy to obey a noble ruler who convinces
while h
It is very good to be left alone with the truth sometimes, to hear with all its sternness what it will say to one.
It is very little that we can ever know of the ways of Providence or the laws of existence; but that little is enough, and exactly enough.
It is war's prize to take all advantages, / And ten to one is no impeach of valour.
It is we that are blind, not Fortune.
It is well that there is no one without a fault,
for he would not have a friend in the world. He would seem to belong to a different species.
It is well to go for a light to another man's fire, but by no means to tarry by it.
It is when the hour of conflict is over, that history comes to a right understanding of the strife, and is ready to exclaim: "Lo! God is here, and we knew it not."
It is wholesomer for the moral nature to be restrained, even by arbitrary power, than to be allowed to exercise arbitrary power.
It is wisdom alone that can recognise wisdom.
It is wise not to know a secret, and honest
not to reveal it.
It is with a fine genius as with a fine fashion; all those are displeased at it who are not able to follow it.
It is with diseases of the mind as with those of the body; we are half dead before we understand our disorders, and half cured when we do.
It is with history as it is with nature, as it is with everything profound, past, present, or future; the deeper we earnestly search into them, the more difficult are the problems that arise. He who does not fear these, but boldly confronts them, will, with every step or advance, feel himself both more at his ease and more highly educated.
It is with ideas as with pieces of money; those of least value generally circulate the best.
It is with narrow-soul'd people as with narrow-neck'd
bottles; the less they have in them the more noise they make in pouring it out.
It is with our thoughts as with flowers. Those whose expression is simple carry their seed with them; those that are double, by their richness and pomp charm the mind, but produce nothing.
It is with words as with sunbeams; the more they are condensed, the deeper they burn.
It makes a great difference to the force of any sentence whether there be a man behind it or no. In the learned journal, in the influential newspaper, I discern no form; only some irresponsible shadow; oftener some moneyed corporation, or some dangler, who hopes, in the mask and robes of his paragraph, to pass for somebody.
It matters less to a man where he is born than where he can live.
It matters little whether a man be mathematically,
or philologically, or artistically cultivated, so he be cultivated.
It matters not how a man dies, but how he lives.
It matters not that a woman is well dressed if her manners be bad; ill-breeding mars a fine dress more than dirt.
It matters not whether our good-humour be construed by others into insensibility, or even idiotism; it is happiness to ourselves.
It may be we shall touch the Happy Isles, / And see the great Achilles whom we knew.
It may indeed be that man is frightfully threshed at times by public and domestic ill-fortune, but the ruthless destiny, if it smites the rich sheaves, only crumples the straw; the grains feel nothing of it, and bound merrily hither and thither on the threshing-floor, unconcerned whether they wander into the mill or the cornfield.
It must be bad indeed if a book has a more demoralising effect than life itself.
It needs a man to perceive a man.
It ne'er was wealth, it ne'er was wealth, / That coft contentment, peace, or pleasure; / The bands and bliss o' mutual love, / O that's the chiefest warld's treasure!
It never occurs to fools that merit and good
fortune are closely united.
It never rains but it pours.
It never smokes but there's fire.
It offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who for the most part are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb show and noise.
It oft falls out to have what we would have; we speak not what we mean.
It requires a great deal of boldness and a
great deal of caution to make a great fortune, and when you have got it, it requires ten times as much wit to keep it.
It requires a great deal of poetry to gild the pill of poverty.
It requires a long time to know any one.
It requires more than mere genius to be an author.
It requires much courage not to be down-hearted in the world.
It requires no preterhuman force of will in any
young man or woman ... to get at least half an hour out of a solid busy day for good and disinterested reading.
It seems a law of society to despise a man who looks discontented because its requirements have compelled him to part with all he values in his life.
It seems as if them as aren't wanted here are th' only ones as aren't wanted i' the other world.
It should not be suspected of a man, whose life hath been spent in noble deeds, that his reason is lost, when he is only involved in trouble. A fire may be overturned, but its flames will never descend.
It so falls out, / That what we have we prize not to the worth / Whiles we enjoy it; but being lack'd and lost, / Why then we rack the value.
It takes a good many spadefuls of earth to
bury the truth.
It takes a great deal of living to get a little deal of learning.
It takes a great man to make a good listener.
It takes much more penetration to discover a fool than a clever man.
It takes ten pounds of common-sense to carry one pound of learning.
It was a stroke / Brought the stream from the
flinty rock.
It was alway yet the trick of our English nation, if they have a good thing, to make it too common.
It was always the aim of the artists as well as the wise men of antiquity, to mean much though they might say little.
It was for beauty that the world was made.
It was the nightingale, and not the lark / That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear.
It was the wisdom of the ancients to regard
the most useful as the most illustrious.
It were better to be of no church than bitter for any.
It were easier to stop Euphrates at its source than one tear of a true and tender heart.
It were good for a man to have some anchorage deeper than the quicksands of this world; for these drift to and fro so as to baffle all conjecture.
It were no virtue to bear calamities if we did not feel them.
It will be all the same a hundred years hence.
It will be an ill web to bleach.
It will have blood; they say, blood will have blood; / Stones have been known to move, and trees to speak.
It will never out of the flesh that's bred in the bone.
It would be better that we should not exist, than that we should guiltily disappoint the purposes of existence.
It would be some advantage to live a primitive
and frontier life, though in the midst of an outward civilisation, if only to learn what are the gross necessaries of life, and what methods have been taken to obtain them.
It's a gude heart that says nae ill, but a better that thinks nane.
It's a poor man that always counts his sheep.
It's a poor sport that's not worth the candle.
It's a sair field where a's slain.
It's a small joke sets men laughing when they
sit a-staring at one another wi' a pipe i' their mouths.
It's a weary warld, and naebody bides in't.
It's all very well having a ready-made rich man, but it may happen he'll be a ready-made fool.
It's an ill wind that blaws naebody gude.
It's aye the cheapest lawyer's fee / To taste the barrel.
It's bad flesh that won't take salt; worse is
the body that won't take warning.
It's difficult to give sense to a fool.
It's dogged as does it.
It's good sheltering under an old hedge.
It's hard sailing when there is no wind.
It's hard to take the twist out of an oak that grew in the sapling.
It's hard to tell which is Old Harry when everybody's got boots on.
It's harder work getting to hell than to heaven.
It's hardly in a body's power / To keep, at times, frae being sour, / To see how things are shared.
It's height makes Grantham steeple stand awry.
It's ill livin' in a hen-roost for them as doesn't like fleas.
It's ill living where everybody knows everybody.
It's ill talking between a full man and a fasting.
It's ill wool that will take no dye.
It's lang ere the devil dee by the dyke-side.
It's never too late to learn.
It's no in titles nor in rank; / It's no in wealth like London bank, / To purchase peace and rest: / It's no in makin' muckle mair, / It's no in books, it's no in lear, / To mak' us truly blest.
It's no tint
It's no use filling your pocket full of money if you have got a hole in the corner.
It's no use killing nettles to grow docks.
It's no use pumping a dry well.
It's not "What has she?" but "What is she?"
It's poor eating where the flavour of the meat
lies in the cruets.
It's poor friendship that needs to be constantly bought.
It's pride that puts this country down; / Man, take thine old cloak about thee.
It's sin, and no poverty, that maks a man miserable.
It's them as take advantage that get advantage i' this world, I think; folks have to wait long enough before it's brought to 'em.
It's too late to cast anchor when the ship is
on the rocks.
It's wiser being good than bad; / It's safer being meek than fierce; / It's fitter being sane than mad. / My own hope is, a sun will pierce / The thickest cloud earth ever stretch'd; / That after last returns the first, / Though a wide compass round be fetch'd; / That what began best can't end worst, / Nor what God blessèd once prove accurst.
It's your dead chicks take the longest hatchin'.
Ita lex scripta
Ivory does not come from a rat's mouth.
J'ai bonne cause
J'ai en toujours pour principe de ne faire jamais par autrui ce que je pouvais faire par moi-même
J'ai failli attendre
J'ai graissé la patte au concierge
J'ai ris, me voilà désarmé
J'ai toujours vu que, pour réussir dans le
monde, il fallait avoir l'air fou et être sage
J'ai trouvé chaussure à mon pied
J'ai vécu
J'ai voulu voir, j'ai vu
J'aime mieux ma mie
J'appelle un chat un chat, et Rolet un fripon
J'embrasse mon rival, mais c'est pour l'étouffer
J'en passe et des meilleurs
J'étais poète, historien, / Et maintenant je ne suis rien
J'étais pour Ovide à quinze ans, / Mais je suis pour Horace à trente
J'évite d'être long, et je deviens obscur
J'y suis, et j'y reste
Ja, das Gold ist nur Chimäre
Ja, der Krieg verschlingt die Besten!
Ja, grosse Männer werden stets verfolgt, / Und kommen immer in Verlegenheiten
Ja, so schätzt der Mensch das Leben, als
heiliges Kleinod, / Dass er jenen am meisten verehrt, der es trotzig verschmähet
Jacet ecce Tibullus, / Vix manet e toto parva quod urna capit
Jack at a pinch.
Jack is as good as Jill.
Jack-o'-both sides is, before long, trusted by nobody, and abused by both parties.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
Jack shall pipe and Jill shall dance.
Jack will never be a gentleman.
Jack's as good as his master.
Jacta alea est
Jactitatio
Jam nunc minaci murmure cornuum / Perstringis
aures; jam litui strepunt
Jam pauca aratro jugera regiæ / Moles relinquent
Jam portum inveni, Spes et Fortuna valete! / Nil mihi vobiscum est, ludite nunc alios
Jam redit et Virgo, redeunt Saturnia regna
Jam seges est ubi Troja fuit, resecandaque falce / Luxuriat Phrygio sanguine pinguis humus
Jam summa procul villarum culmina fumant
Jamais abattu
Jamais arrière
Jamais l'innocence et le mystère n'habitèrent long tems ensemble
Jamais la cornemuse ne dit mot si elle n'a le ventre plein
Jamais long nez n'a gâté beau visage
Jamais nous ne goûtons de parfaite allégresse; / Nos plus heureux succès sont mêlés de tristesse
Jamais on ne vaincra les Romains que dans Rome
Jamque opus exegi, quod nec Jovis ira, nec ignis, / Nec poterit ferrum, nec edax abolere vetustas
Januæ mentis
Januis clausis
Jardin des plantes
Jasper fert myrrham, thus Melchior, Balthazar aurum. / Hæc quicum secum portet tria nomina regum, / Solvitur a morbo, Domini pietate, caduco
Je allseitiger, je individueller
Je cognois tout, fors que moy-mesme
Je crains Dieu, cher Abner, et n'ai pas d'autre
crainte
Je crains l'homme d'un seul livre
Je fetter der Floh, je magerer der Hund
Je jouis des ouvrages qui surpassent les miens
Je laisse à penser la vie / Que firent ces deux amis
Je le tiens
Je m'en vais chercher un grand peut-être; tirez le rideau, la farce est jouée
Je m'en vais voir le soleil pour la dernière fois!
Je m'estonne fort pourquoy / La mort osa songer a moy / Qui ne songeais jamais à elle
Je maintiendrai le droit
Je me fie en Dieu
Je mehr der Brunnen gebraucht wird, desto mehr giebt er Wasser
Je mehr Gesetze, je weniger Recht
Je mehr man das Ich versteckt, je mehr Welt hat man
Je mets en fait que, si tous les hommes savaient ce qu'ils disent les uns des autres, il n'y aurait pas quatre amis dans le monde
Je minder sich der Kluge selbst gefällt, / Um
desto mehr schätzt ihn die Welt
Je n'ai fait celle-ci plus longue que parceque je n'ai pas eu le loisir de la faire plus courte
Je n'ai mérité / Ni cet excès d'honneur ni cette indignité
Je n'ai point d'ennemis que ceux de l'état
Je n'oublierai jamais
Je ne change qu'en mourant
Je ne changerois pas mon répos pour tous les trésors du monde
Je ne cherche qu'un
Je ne connais que trois moyens d'exister dans la société: être ou voleur, ou mendiant, ou salarié
Je ne puis pas me refondre
Je ne sais quoi
Je pense
Je pense plus
Je plie et ne romps pas
Je prends mon bien où je le trouve
Je sais à mon pot comment les autres bouillent
Je schöner die Wirthin, je schwerer die Zeche
Je sens qu'il y a un Dieu, et je ne sens pas
qu'il n'y en ait point; cela me suffit
Je suis assez semblable aux girouettes, qui ne se fixent que quand elles sont rouillées
Je suis oiseau, voyez mes ailes! / Je suis souris; vivent les rats
Je suis prêt
Je suis riche des biens dont je sais me passer
Je t'aime d'autant plus que je t'estime moins
Je veux de bonne guerre
Je veux le droit
Je veux que, le dimanche, chaque paysan ait sa poule au pot
Je vis en espoir
Je vois, je sais, je crois, je suis désabusé
Je voudrais voir un homme sobre, modéré. chaste, équitable prononcer qu'il n'y-a point de Dieu; il parlerait du moins sans intérêt; mais cet homme ne se trouve point
Je vous apprendrai à vivre
Je vous ferai voir de quel bois je me chauffe
Je weniger die Worte, je besser Gebet
Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel, /
Seeking the bubble reputation / Even in the cannon's mouth.
Jealousy dislikes the world to know it.
Jealousy / Hath in it an alchemic force to fuse / Almost into one metal love and hate.
Jealousy is a painful passion; yet without some share of it, the agreeable affection of love has difficulty to subsist in its full force and violence.
Jealousy is always born with love, but it does not always die with it.
Jealousy is cruel as the grave; the coals
thereof are coals of fire, which hath a most vehement flame.
Jealousy is love's bed of burning snarl.
Jealousy is often the helpmate of sweet love.
Jealousy is the forerunner of love, and sometimes its awakener.
Jealousy is the rage of a man.
Jealousy is the sister of love, as the devil is
the brother of the angel.
Jealousy: / It is the green-eyed monster that doth mock / The meat it feeds on.
Jealousy lives upon doubts; it becomes madness or ceases entirely as soon as we pass from doubt to certainty.
Jean a étudié pour être bête
Jean s'en alla comme il était venu
Jeddart justice: First hang a man, and syne
t
Jede grosse Zeit erfasst den ganzen Menschen
Jede Macht, welche wir über andere Gegenstände ausüben, hängt von der Macht ab, die wir über uns selbst besitzen
Jede That der Weltgeschichte / Zeugt auch wieder eine That
Jede Unthat, / Trägt ihren eignen Racheengel schon, / Die böse Hoffnung unter ihrem Herzen
Jedem das Seine ist nicht zu viel
Jedem redlichen Bemühn / Sel Beharrlichkeit verliehn.
Jeden anderen Meister erkennt man an dem, was er ausspricht; was er weiss, verschweigt, zeigt mir den Meister des Styls
Jeder ausserordentliche Mensch hat eine gewisse Sendung, die er zu vollführen berufen ist
Jeder freut sich seiner Stelle, / Bietet dem Verächter Trutz
Jeder gilt so viel als er hat
Jeder ist seiner Worte bester Ausleger
Jeder Jüngling sehnt sich so zu lieben. / Jedes
Mädchen so geliebt zu sein: / Ach, der heiligste von unsern Trieben / Warum quillt aus ihm die grimme Pein?
Jeder Krämer lobt seine Ware
Jeder Mensch muss nach seiner Weise denken: denn er findet auf seinem Wege immer ein Wahres, oder eine Art von Wahrem, die ihm durchs Leben hilft; nur darf er sich nicht gehen lassen; er muss sich controliren; der blosse nackte Instinct geziemt nicht dem Menschen
Jeder Morgen ruft zu, das Gehörige zu thun, und das Mögliche zu erwarten
Jeder muss der Natur seine Schuld bezahlen
Jeder muss ein Paar Narrenschuhe zerreissen,
zerreisst er nicht mehr
Jeder, sieht man ihn einzeln, ist leidlich klug und verständig; / Sind sie in corpori, gleich wird euch ein Dummkopf daraus
Jeder stirbt / Und sterben ist die grösste That für jedem
Jeder Tag hat seine Plage / Und die Nacht hat ihre Lust
Jeder Weg zum rechten Zwecke / Ist auch recht in jeder Strecke
Jeder Zustand, ja jeder Augenblick, ist von
unendlichem Werth, denn er ist der Repräsentant einer ganzen Ewigkeit
Jedes ausgesprochene Wort erregt den Eigensinn
Jedes Weib will lieber schön als fromm sein
Jedes Weibes / Fehler ist des Mannes Schuld
Jedwede Tugend / Ist fleckenrein bis auf den Augenblick / Der Probe
Jedwede Zeit hat ihre Wehen
Jedweder ist des dunkeln Schicksals Knecht
Jeer not others upon any occasion.
Jeerers must be content to taste of their own broth.
Jejunus raro stomachus vulgaria temnit
Jeshurun waxed fat and kicked.
Jess would have been an omnivorous reader of books had it not been her conviction that reading was idling.
Jest not with the eye, nor religion.
Jest so that it may not become earnest.
Jest with an ass, and he will flap you in the face with his tail.
Jest with your equals.
Jesters do oft prove prophets.
Jesting brings serious sorrows.
Jesting lies bring serious sorrows.
Jesting Pilate, asking, "What is truth?" had not the smallest chance to ascertain it. He could not have known it had a god shown it to him.
Jesus Christ belonged to the true race of prophets.
He saw with open eye the mystery of the soul. Drawn by its severe harmony, ravished with its beauty, He lived in it, and had His being there.
Jesus hominum salvator
Jesus of Nazareth, and the life He lived and the death He died;--through this, as through a miraculous window, the heaven of Martyr Heroism, the "divine depths of sorrow," of noble labour, and the unspeakable silent expanses of eternity, first in man's history disclose themselves.
Jesus of Nazareth was not poor, though He had not where to lay His head.
Jesus speaks always from within, and in a degree that transcends all others. In that is the miracle.
Jet d'eau
Jeter le manche après la cognée
Jetzt giebt es keine Riesen mehr; Gewalt / Ist für den Schwachen jederzeit ein Riese
Jeu d'enfant
Jeu de hazard
Jeu de mains, jeu de vilain
Jeu de mots
Jeu de theâtre
Jeune chirurgien, vieux médécin
Jeune, et dans l'âge heureux qui méconnait la crainte
Jeune, on conserve pour sa vieillesse; vieux, on épargne pour la mort
Jewels five words long, / That on the stretch'd forefinger of all time / Sparkle for ever.
Jo ædlere Blod, jo mindre Hovmod
Jo argere Skalk, je bedre Lykke
Jo mere af Lov, jo mindre af Ret
Joan is as good as my lady in the dark.
John Gilpin kiss'd his loving wife; / O'erjoy'd was he to find / That, though on pleasure she was bent, / She had a frugal mind.
Johnsons are rare; yet, Boswells are perhaps still rarer.
Join hands with God to make a man to live.
Joindre les mains, c'est bien; les ouvrir, c'est mieux
Joke at your leisure; ye kenna wha may jibe yoursel'.
Joke with a slave, and he'll soon show his heels.
Jong rijs is te buigen, maar geen oude boomen
Jonge lui, domme lui; oude lui, koude lui
Jouk and let the jaw
Jour de fête
Jour de ma vie
Jour gras
Jour maigre
Journal pour rire
Journalists are like little dogs; whenever anything stirs they immediately begin to bark.
Journeys end in lovers' meeting, / Every wise man's son doth know.
Jove tonante cum populo agi non est fas
Jovis omnia plena
Joy? a moon by fits reflected in a swamp or watery bog.
Joy and grief are never far apart.
Joy and sorrow / Are to-day and to-morrow.
Joy descends gently upon us like the evening dew, and does not patter down like a hailstorm.
Joy has this in common with pain, that it robs
men of reason.
Joy, in a changeable subject, must necessarily change as the subject changeth.
Joy is a guest who generally comes uninvited.
Joy is a sunbeam between two clouds.
Joy is as a raiment fine, / Spun of magic threads divine; / Which as you are in act to don, / The wearer and the robe are gone.
Joy is buyable--by forsaking all that a man
hath.
Joy is like the ague; one good day between two bad ones.
Joy is more divine than sorrow; for joy is bread, and sorrow is medicine.
Joy is the best of wine.
Joy is the mainspring in the whole round of universal Nature; joy moves the wheels of the great timepiece of the world; she it is that loosens flowers from their buds, suns from their firmaments, rolling spheres in distant space not seen by the glass of the astronomer.
Joy is the sweet voice, joy the luminous cloud.
Joy may elevate, ambition glorify, but sorrow alone can consecrate.
Joy must have sorrow; sorrow, joy.
Joy never feasts so high as when the first course is of misery.
Joy ruled the day and love the night.
Joy shared is joy doubled.
Joy surfeited turns to sorrow.
Joy wholly from without is false, precarious and short. Joy from within is like smelling the rose on the tree; it is more sweet, and fair, and lasting.
Joy's a subtle elf; / I think man's happiest when he forgets himself.
Joys are for the gods; / Man's common course of nature is distress; / His joys are prodigies; and like them too, / Portend approaching ill. The wise man starts / And trembles at the perils of a bliss.
Joys are our wings, sorrows are our spurs.
Joys carried too far change into sorrows.
Joy's recollection is no longer joy, while sorrow's memory is a sorrow still.
Joys shared with others are more enjoyed.
Joys, tender and true, / Yet all with wings.
Joyful to live, yet not afraid to die.
Joyfulness
Jubilate Deo
Jucunda est memoria præteritorum malorum
Jucunda et idonea dicere vitæ
Jucunda rerum vicissitudo
Jucundi acti labores
Jucundum et carum sterilis facit uxor amicum
Judex damnatur cum nocens absolvitur
Judex non potest esse testis in propria causa
Judge before friendship, then confide till death, / Well for thy friend, but nobler far for thee.
Judge me, ye powers; let fortune tempt or frown, I am prepared; my honour is my own.
Judge not according to the appearance, but
judge righteous judgment.
Judge not of men and things at first sight.
Judge not, that ye be not judged.
Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, / But trust Him for His grace.
Judge not the play before the play is done; / Her plot has many changes; every day / Speaks a new scene; the last act crowns the play.
Judge not the preacher.... Do not grudge /
To pick out treasures from an earthen pot. / The worst speak something good; if all want sense, / God takes a text and preacheth patience.
Judge of the pleasure of the heart by the pleasure of the eye.
Judge thou me by what I am, / So shalt thou find me fairest.
Judge thyself with a judgment of sincerity, and thou wilt judge others with a judgment of charity.
Judges and senates have been bought for gold; / Esteem and love were never to be sold.
Judges are but men, and are swayed, like other
men, by vehement prejudices.
Judges ought to be more learned than witty, more reverent than plausible, and more advised than confident. Above all things, integrity is their portion and proper virtue.
Judgment for an evil thing is many times delayed some day or two, some century or two, but it is sure as life, it is sure as death.
Judgment is forced upon us by experience.
Judgment is not a swift-growing plant; it requires time and culture to mature it.
Judgment is turned away backward, and justice
standeth afar off; for truth is fallen in the street, and equity cannot enter.
Judgment must sway the feelings and keep them in their right place, or harm will be done where good was intended.
Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of fools.
Judgments that are made on the wrong side of the danger amount to no more than an affectation of skill, without either credit or effect.
Judicandum est legibus, non exemplis
Judicata res pro veritate accipitur
Judice te mercede caret, per seque petenda est / Externis virtus incomitata bonis
Judicia Dei sunt ita recondita ut quis illa scrutari nullatenus possit
Judicio acri perpendere
Judicious persons will think all the less of us because of the ill-judged praises of our silly friends.
Judicis est innocentiæ subvenire
Judicis est judicare secundum allegata et probata
Judicis est jus dicere non dare
Judicis officium est, ut res, ita tempora rerum quærere
Judicium a non suo judice datum nullius est momenti
Judicium Dei
Judicium parium aut leges terræ
Judicium subtile videndis artibus
Jugez un homme par ses questions, plutôt que par ses réponses
Jugulare mortuos
Juncta juvant
Junctæque Nymphis Gratiæ decentes
Junge Faullenzer, alte Bettler
Junger Spieler, alter Bettler
Jungere dextras
Jungere equos Titan velocibus imperat Horis
Juniores ad labores
Jupiter est quodcunque vides, quocunque moveris
Jupiter in multos temeraria fulmina torquet, / Qui pœnam culpa non meruere pati
Jupiter tonans
Jura negat sibi nata, nihil non arrogat armis
Jurado ha el vano de lo negro no hacer blanco
Jurare in verba magistri
Juravi lingua, mentem injuratam gero
Jure divino
Jure humano
Jure, non dono
Jure repræsentationis
Jurgia præcipue vino stimulata caveto
Juris utriusque doctor
Juristen, böse Christen
Jus civile
Jus civile neque inflecti gratia, neque perfringi potentia, neque adulterari pecunia debet
Jus commune
Jus devolutum
Jus et norma loquendi
Jus gentium
Jus gladii
Jus in re
Jus omnium in omnia, et consequenter bellum omnium in omnes
Jus mariti
Jus postliminii
Jus primogenituræ
Jus proprietatis
Jus regium
Jus sanguinis
Jus summum sæpe summa malitia est
Jusqu'où les hommes ne se portent-ils point par l'intérêt de la religion, dont ils sont si peu persuadés, et qu'ils pratiquent si mal?
Just a kind word and a yielding manner, and anger and complaining may be avoided.
Just a path that is sure, / Thorny or not, / And a heart honest and pure / Keeping the path that is sure, / That be my lot.
Just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.
Just are the ways of God, / And justifiable to
men; / Unless there be who think not God at all.
Just as a moth gnaws a garment, so doth envy consume a man.
Just as "dirt is something in its wrong place," so social evils are mainly wrong applications of right powers.
Just as gymnastic exercise is necessary to keep the body healthy, so is musical exercise necessary to keep the soul healthy; the proper nourishment of the intellect and passions can no more take place without music than the proper functions of the stomach and the blood without exercise.
Just as the flint contains the spark, unknown to itself, which the steel alone can wake into life, so adversity often reveals to us hidden gems which prosperity or negligence would cause for ever to lie hid.
Just at the age 'twixt boy and youth, / When
thought is speech, and speech is truth.
Just enou', and nae mair, like Janet Howie's shearers' meat.
Just hatred of scoundrels, fixed, irreconcilable, inexorable enmity to the enemies of God; this, and not love of them, is the backbone of any religion whatsoever, let alone the Christian.
Just knows, and knows no more, her Bible true, / A truth the brilliant Frenchman never knew.
Just laws are no restraint upon the freedom of the good, for the good man desires nothing which a just law will interfere with.
Just plain duty to know, / Irksome or not, /
And truer and better to grow / In doing the duty I know, / That I have sought.
Justa razon engañar el engañador
Justæ causæ facilis est defensio
Juste milieu
Justi ut sidera fulgent
Justice always is, whether we define or not.
Everything done, suffered, or proposed in Parliament, or out of it, is either just or unjust; either is accepted by the gods and eternal facts, or is rejected by them.
Justice and humanity have been fighting their way, like a thunderstorm, against the organised selfishness of human nature. God has given manhood but one clue to success--utter and exact justice.
Justice and judgment are the habitation of God's throne.
Justice and reverence are the everlasting central law of this universe.
Justice and truth alone are capable of being "conserved" and preserved.
Justice and truth are two points of such exquisite
delicacy, that our coarse and blunted instruments will not touch them accurately.
Justice consists in doing no injury to men; decency in giving no offence.
Justice consists mainly in the granting to every human being due aid in the development of such faculties as it possesses for action and enjoyment, ... taking most pains with the best material.
Justice gives sentence many times / On one man for another's crimes.
Justice
bandage about her eyes, and weighs not with scales, but with her own hands; and weighs, not merely the shares and remunerations of men, but the worth of them; and finding them worth this or that, gives them what they deserve--death or honour.
Justice is always violent to the party offending, for every man is innocent in his own eyes.
Justice is blind; he knows nobody.
Justice is conformity to what the Maker has
seen good to make.
Justice is lame as well as blind among us.
Justice is love's order.
Justice is not postponed. A perfect equality adjusts its balance in all parts of life.
Justice is the bread of the nation; it is always hungry for it.
Justice is the first virtue of those who command,
and stops the complaints of those who obey.
Justice is the freedom of those who are equal. Injustice is the freedom of those who are unequal.
Justice is the great end of civil society.
Justice is the keynote of the world, and all else is ever out of tune.
Justice is the whole secret of success in governments; as absolutely essential to the training of an infant as to the control of a mighty nation.
Justice is truth in action.
Justice, like lightning, ever shall appear, / To few men's ruin, but to all men's fear.
Justice may be furnished out of fire, as far as her sword goes; and courage may be all over a continual blaze.
Justice must and will be done.
Justice of thought and style, refinement in manners, good breeding, and politeness of every kind, can come only from the trial and experience of what is best.
Justice pleaseth few in their own house.
Justice satisfies everybody, and justice alone.
Justice, self-command, and true thought are our salvation.
Justice, the miracle-worker among men.
Justice were cruel weakly to relent; / From Mercy's self she got her sacred glaive: / Grace be to those who can and will repent; / But penance long and dreary to the slave.
Justice, while she winks at crimes, / Stumbles
on innocence sometimes.
Justice without power is inefficient; power without justice is tyranny.
Justice without wisdom is impossible.
Justicia, mas no por mi casa
Justissimus unus / Et servantissimus æqui
Justitia erga Deum religio dicitur; erga parentes
pietas
Justitia est constans et perpetua voluntas jus suum cuique tribuendi
Justitia est obtemperatio scriptis legibus
Justitia et pax
Justitia nihil expetit præmii
Justitia non novit patrem nec matrem, solum
veritatem spectat
Justitia tanta vis est, ut ne illi quidem, qui maleficio et scelere pascuntur, possint sine ulla particula justitiæ vivere
Justitia virtutum regina
Justitiæ partes sunt, non violare homines verecundiæ non offendere
Justitiæ soror fides
Justitiæ tenax
Justum bellum quibus necessarium, et pia arma quibus nulla nisi in armis relinquitur spes
Justum et tenacem propositi virum, / Non civium ardor prava jubentium, / Non vultus instantis tyranni / Mente quatit solida
Justus propositi tenax
Justus ut palma florebit
Juvante Deo
Juvenile vitium regere non posse impetum
Kalendæ Græcæ
Kalte Hand, warmes Herz
Kann auch der Sonne Kraft ein irrer Stern entwallen? / Wie könnte denn ein Mensch aus Gottes Liebe fallen?
Kann er mir mehr als seine Seele geben?
Kann ich Armeen aus der Erde stampfen? / Wächst mir ein Kornfeld in der flachen Hand?
Kannst dem Schicksal widerstehen, / Aber manchmal giebt es Schläge; / Will's nicht aus dem Wege gehen, / Ei! so geh' du aus dem Wege.
Kannst du nicht allen gefallen durch deine
That und dein Kunstwerk: / Mach' es wenigen recht; vielen gefallen ist schlimm
Kannst du nicht der Welt entsagen, / Winkt das Glück dir nimmer zu
Kannst du nicht schön empfinden, dir bleibt doch, vernünftig zu wollen, / Und als ein Geist zu thun, was du als Mensch nicht vermagst
Kartenspiel ist des Teufels Gebetsbuch
Kauf bedarf hundert Augen; Verkauf hat an einem genug
Kaufen ist wohlfeiler als Bitten
Kaum ist ein Irrthum unterdrückt, so erhebt sich wieder ein anderer, den man schon in tiefe Vergessenheit begraben glaubte
Keep a gamester from dice, and a good student
from his book.
Keep a thing seven years, and you find a use for it.
Keep all thy native good, and naturalise / All foreign of that name; but scorn their ill; / Embrace their activeness, not vanities.
Keep always in your mind that, with due submission to Providence, a man of genius has been seldom ruined but by himself.
Keep company with the humble, with the devout, and with the virtuous; and confer with them of things that edify.
Keep cool, and you command everybody.
Keep good company, and you shall be of the number.
Keep me in patience; and, with ripened time, / Unfold the evil which is here wrapt up / In countenance.
Keep my judgments and do them.
Keep not standing fix'd and rooted; / Briskly venture, briskly roam; / Head and hand, where'er thou foot it, / And stout heart are still at home. / In what land the sun does visit, / Brisk are we, whate'er betide; / To give space for wandering is it / That the world was made so wide.
Keep oot o' his company wha cracks o' his
cheatery
Keep some till more come.
Keep the bowels open, the head cool, and the feet warm, and a fig for the doctors.
Keep the common road and you are safe.
Keep the dogs near when thou suppest with the wolf.
Keep the doors of thy mouth from her that
lieth in thy bosom.
Keep the imagination sane; that is one of the truest conditions of communion with heaven.
Keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother.
Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God, and be more ready to hear than to give the sacrifice of fools.
Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life.
Keep thy mind always at its own disposal.
Keep thyself perfectly still, however it may storm around thee. The more thou feelest thyself to be a man, so much the more dost thou resemble the gods.
Keep to companions of your own rank.
Keep to your subject close in all you say; / Nor for a sounding sentence ever stray.
Keep well while you are well.
Keep what you want, cast what you can, and
expect nothing back once lost or once given.
Keep you in the rear of your affection, / Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Keep your ain fish guts for your ain seamaws
Keep your breath to cool your own crowdie
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage; half-shut afterwards.
Keep your gab steeket
kenna
Keep your hurry in your fist.
Keep your idea while you can; let it still circulate in your blood, and there fructify; inarticulately inciting you to good activities; giving to your whole spiritual life a ruddier health. And when the time comes for speaking it you will speak it all the more concisely and the more expressively; and if such a time should never come, have you not already acted it and uttered it as no words can?
Keep your mouth and keep your friend.
Keep your mouth shut and your een open.
Keep your shop, and your shop will keep you.
Keeping from falling is better than helping up.
Kein Baum fällt auf den ersten Schlag
Kein Bündniss ist mit dem Gezücht der Schlangen
Kein Ding ist so schlecht, dass es nicht zu etwas nützen sollte
Kein grosser Mann muss eines natürlichen Todes sterben
Kein Kaiser hat dem Herzen vorzuschreiben
Kein kluger Streiter hält den Feind gering
Kein Mann ist im Stande, den Werth eines Weibes zu fühlen, das nicht sich zu ehren weiss
Kein Mensch ergründet sein Verhängniss
Kein Mensch kann so ganz Teufel sein, dass er / Des Lichtes letzten Strahl in sich ersticke
Kein Mensch / Muss das Unmögliche erzwingen wollen
Kein Mensch muss müssen
Kein schöner Ding ist wohl auf Erden / Als Frauenlieb, wem sie mag werden
Kein Schurke ist so dumm, dass er nicht einen Grund für seine Niederträchtigkeit fände
Kein Wunder, dass wir uns Alle mehr oder weniger im Mittelmässigen gefallen, weil es uns in Ruhe lässt; es giebt das behagliche Gefühl, als wenn man mit seines Gleichen umginge
Keine Gaukelkunst berückt / Das Flammenauge, das ins Innere blickt
Keine Kunst ist, Geister loszulassen; / Kunstgerecht
sie binden, ist die Kunst
Keine Probe ist gefährlich, zu der man Muth hat
Keinen Glauben hat die Liebe / Als den Glauben an sich selber!
Keinen Reimer wird man finden, / Der sich nicht den besten hielte, / Keinen Fiedler, der nicht lieber / Eigne Melodien spielte
Keiner ist so klug, dass er nicht ein wenig Narrheit übrig hätte
Ken when to spend, and when to spare, and
when to buy, and you'll ne'er be bare.
Ken yoursel', and your neebours winna mistak' you.
Kennst du das herrliche Gift der unbefriedigten Liebe? / Es versengt und erquickt, zehret am Mark und erneut's
Kennst du das Land, wo die Citronen blüh'n?
Keyholes are the occasions of more sin and wickedness than all the other holes in this world put together.
Ki sokat markol, keveset szorit
Kill, and thou shalt be killed, and they shall kill him who kills thee.
Kill no more than you can salt.
Kin or no kin, evil to him who has nothing.
Kind hearts are more than coronets, and simple faith than Norman blood.
Kind words are worth much and they cost
little.
Kind words don't wear the tongue.
Kind words prevent a good deal of that perverseness which rough and imperious usage often produces in generous minds.
Kindle not a fire that you cannot extinguish.
Kindliness decreases when money is in question.
Kindness by secret sympathy is tied; / For
noble souls in nature are allied.
Kindness canna aye lie on ae side o' the hoose.
Kindness comes o' will; it canna be coft
Kindness has resistless charms; / All things else but weakly move; / Fiercest anger it disarms, / And clips the wings of flying love.
Kindness, in act at least, is in our power, but fondness is not.
Kindness in us is the honey that blunts the
sting of unkindness in another.
Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks, shall win my love.
Kindness is a good thing in itself.
Kindness is lost upon an ungrateful man.
Kindness is the golden chain by which society is bound together.
Kindness is virtue itself.
Kindness, nobler ever than revenge.
Kindness out of season destroys authority.
Kindness overcomes a' dislike.
Kindness will creep whaur it canna gang.
Kindnesses, like grain, increase by sowing.
Kindnesses misplaced are nothing but a curse and a disservice.
Kindred weaknesses induce friendship as often as kindred virtues.
Kings alone are no more than single men.
Kings and bears aft worry their keepers.
Kings and their subjects, masters and slaves,
find a common level in two places--at the foot of the cross and in the grave.
Kings are but the slaves of their position; they dare not follow what their own hearts dictate.
Kings are like stars; they rise and set; they have / The worship of the world, but no repose.
Kings are said to have long arms; but every man should have long arms, and should pluck his living, his instruments, his power, and his knowing from the sun, moon, and stars.
Kings are willing to be aided, but not surpassed.
Kings' caff
corn
Kings' cheese gangs half awa' in parings
Kings chiefly in this should imitate God; their mercy should be above all their works.
Kings do with men as with pieces of money; they give them what value they please, and we are obliged to receive them at their current, and not at their real value.
Kings fight for empires, madmen for applause.
Kings hae long lugs
Kings have long arms.
Kings may be bless'd, but Tam was glorious, / O'er a' the ills o' life victorious.
Kings ought to be kings in all things.
Kings ought to shear, not skin their sheep.
Kings' titles commonly begin by force, / Which
time wears off, and mellows on to right.
Kings who affect to be familiar with their companions make use of men as they do of oranges, which, when they have well sucked, they throw away.
Kings will be tyrants from policy, when subjects are rebels from principle.
Kings wish to be absolute, and they are sometimes told that the best way to become so is to make themselves beloved by the people; but the maxim, unhappily, is laughed at in court.
Kiss (a) from my mother made me a painter.
Kisses are like grains of gold or silver found
upon the ground, of no value themselves, but precious as showing what a mine is near.
Kisses are pledges and incentives of love.
Kisses are the messengers of love.
Kissing goes by favour.
Klein gewin brengt rijkdom in
Kleine Diebe henkt man, grosse lässt man
laufen
Kleine Diebe henkt man, vor grossen zieht man den Hut ab
Kleine Feinde und kleine Wunden sind nicht zu verachten
Kleine Geschenke erhalten die Freundschaft
Kleiner Profit und oft, ist besser wie grosser und selten
Kluge Männer suchen wirthliche Frauen
Knave! because thou strikest as a knight; / Being but knave, I hate thee all the more.
Knavery is supple, and can bend, but honesty is firm and upright, and yields not.
Knavery may serve for a turn, but honesty is best in the long-run.
Knavery's plain face is never seen till used.
Knaves easily believe that others are like
themselves; they can hardly be deceived, and they do not deceive others for any length of time.
Knaves starve not in the land of fools.
Knaves will thrive when honest plainness knows not how to live.
Kneeling ne'er spoiled silk stockings; quit thy state; / All equal are within the church's gate.
Know ere thou hint, and then thou may'st slack: / If thou hint ere thou know, then it is too late.
Know, fools only trade by the eye.
Know from the bounteous heaven all riches flow; / And what man gives, the gods by man bestow.
Know how sublime a thing it is to suffer and be strong.
Know, Nature's children all divide her care; / The fur that warms a monarch warm'd a bear.
Know of a truth that only the time-shadows have perished or are perishable; that the real being of whatever was, and whatever is, and whatever will be, is even now and for ever.
Know that nothing can so foolish be / As
empty boldness.
Know that the loudest roar of the million is not fame; that the wind bag, are ye mad enough to mount it, will burst, or be shot through with arrows, and your bones too shall act as scarecrows.
Know then this truth (enough for man to know), / Virtue alone is happiness below.
Know then thyself; presume not God to scan; / The proper study of mankind is man.
Know thy thought--believe it--front heaven and earth with it, in whatsoever words nature and art have made readiest for thee.
Know thyself, for through thyself only thou canst know God.
Know whom to honour, and emulate, and
follow; know whom to dishonour and avoid, and coerce under hatches, as a foul rebellious thing--this is all the Law and all the Prophets.
Know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God?
Know ye not who would be free themselves must strike the blow? / By their right arms the conquest must be wrought.
Know ye the land where the cypress and myrtle / Are emblems of deeds that are done in their clime; / Where the rage of the vulture, the love of the turtle, / Now melt into sorrow, now madden to crime?
Knowing I loved my books, he furnished me / From mine own library with volumes that / I prize above my dukedom.
Knowing is seeing.
Know'st thou yesterday, its aim and reason; / Work'st thou well to-day for worthy things; / Calmly wait the morrow's hidden season; / Need'st not fear what hap soe'er it brings.
Knowledge advances by steps, and not by leaps.
Knowledge always desires increase; it is like fire, which must first be kindled by some external agent, but which will afterwards propagate itself.
Knowledge and timber should not be much used until they are seasoned.
Knowledge and Wisdom, far from being one, /
Have ofttimes no connection. Knowledge dwells / In heads replete with thoughts of other men; / Wisdom, in minds attentive to their own.
Knowledge becomes evil if the aim be not virtuous.
Knowledge being to be had only of visible and certain truth, error is not a fault of our knowledge, but a mistake of our judgment, giving assent to that which is not true.
Knowledge by rote is no knowledge, it is only a retention of what has been intrusted to the memory.
Knowledge by suffering entereth, / And life is perfected by death.
Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers.
Knowledge comes from experience alone.
Knowledge conquered by labour becomes a possession--a property entirely our own.
Knowledge descries alone, wisdom applies; / That makes some fools, this maketh none but wise.
Knowledge exists to be imparted.
Knowledge has its penalties and pains as
well as its prizes.
Knowledge hath a bewildering tongue, and she will stoop and lead you to the stars, and witch you with her mysteries, till gold is a forgotten dross, and power and fame toys of an hour, and woman's careless love light as the breath that breaks it.
Knowledge humbleth the great man, astonisheth the common man, and puffeth up the little man.
Knowledge in music is in the thinking, and not in memorising.
Knowledge introduceth man to acquaintance; and, as the humble stream to the ocean, so doth it conduct him into the hard-acquired presence of the prince, whence fortune floweth.
Knowledge is a perennial spring of wealth,
 ... and of itself is riches.
Knowledge is a retreat and shelter for us in advanced age; and if we do not plant it when young, it will give us no shade when we grow old.
Knowledge is as food, and needs no less / Her temp'rance over appetite, to know / In measure what the mind may well contain, / Oppresses else with surfeit, and soon turns / Wisdom to folly, as nourishment to wind.
Knowledge is boundless; human capacity limited.
Knowledge is easy unto him that understandeth.
Knowledge is escape from one's self.
Knowledge is essential to freedom.
Knowledge is just like the sun in the heavens, inviting us to noble deeds and lighting our path.
Knowledge is like current coin. A man may have some right to be proud of possessing it, (only) if he has worked for the gold of it, and assayed it, and stamped it, so that it may be received of all men as true, or earned it fairly, being already assayed.
Knowledge is more than equivalent to force.
Knowledge is most surely engraved on brains
well prepared for it.
Knowledge is no burden.
Knowledge is not an inert and passive principle, which comes to us whether we will or no; but it must be sought before it can be won; it is the product of great labour, and therefore of great sacrifice.
Knowledge is not education, and can neither make us happy nor rich.
Knowledge is not happiness, and science but an exchange of ignorance for that which is another kind of ignorance.
Knowledge is of things we see; / And yet we
trust it comes from thee, / A beam in darkness; let it grow.
Knowledge is power.
Knowledge is proud that he has learn'd so much; / Wisdom is humble that he knows no more.
Knowledge is that which, next to virtue, truly and essentially raises one man above another.
Knowledge is the consequence of time, and multitude of days are fittest to teach wisdom.
Knowledge is the excellency of man, whereby he is usually differenced from the brute.
Knowledge is the knowing that we cannot know.
Knowledge is the material with which genius builds her fabrics.
Knowledge is the parent of love; wisdom,
love itself.
Knowledge is the treasure, but judgment the treasurer, of a wise man.
Knowledge is the treasure of the mind, but discretion is the key to it, without which it is useless. The practical part of wisdom is the best.
Knowledge is to one a goddess, to another only an excellent cow.
Knowledge, love, power constitute the complete life.
Knowledge may not be as a courtesan for
pleasure and vanity only; or as a bond-woman, to acquire and gain for her master's use; but as a spouse, for generation, fruit, and comfort.
Knowledge of my way is a good part of my journey.
Knowledge of our duties is the most useful part of philosophy.
Knowledge of the world is dearly bought at the price of moral purity.
Knowledge perverted is knowledge no longer.
Knowledge produceth humility; from humility
proceedeth worthiness; from worthiness riches are acquired; from riches religion, and thence happiness.
Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth.
Knowledge shall vanish away.
Knowledge that a thing is false is a truth.
Knowledge that terminates in curiosity and speculation is inferior to that which is useful, and of all useful knowledge that is the most so which consists in a due care and just notion of ourselves.
Knowledge, the wing wherewith we fly to
heaven.
Knowledge to their eyes her ample page, / Rich with the spoils of time, did ne'er unroll; / Chill penury repress'd their noble rage, / And froze the genial current of the soul.
Knowledge, when wisdom is too weak to guide her, / Is like a headstrong horse that throws the rider.
Knowledge without education is but armed injustice.
Knowledge without integrity is dangerous and dreadful.
Knowledge without justice ought to be called
cunning rather than wisdom.
Knowledge without practice is like a glass eye, all for show, and nothing for use.
Known unto God are all His works from the beginning of the world.
Komm jedem, wie er sei, mit edeln Sinn entgegen, / Vielleicht wird dann in ihm, was edel ist, sich regen
Kraft erwart' ich vom Mann, des Gesetzes Würde behaupt' er; / Aber durch Anmuth allein herrschet und herrsche das Weib
Krankes Fleisch, kranker Geist
Krieg bis aufs Messer
Krieg ist ewig zwischen List und Argwohn, / Nur zwischen Glauben und Vertraun ist Friede
Kühl bis an's Herz hinan
Kunst ist die rechte Hand der Natur. Diese hat nur Geschöpfe, jene hat Menschen gemacht
Kurz ist der Lieb' Entzücken, doch ewig ist
die Pein
Kurz ist der Schmerz, und ewig ist die Freude!
Kyrie eleeison
Kythe
L'absence est à l'amour ce qu'est au feu le vent; / Il éteint le petit, il allume le grand
L'adresse surmonte la force
L'adversité est sans doute un grand maître; mais ce maître se fait payer cher ses leçons, et souvent le profit qu'on en retire ne vaut pas le prix qu'elles ont coûté
L'adversité fait l'homme, et le bonheur les monstres
L'affaire s'achemine
L'âge d'or était l'âge où l'or ne regnait pas
L'âge d'or, qu'une aveugle tradition a placé jusqu'ici dans le passé, est devant nous
L'aigle d'une maison est un sot dans une autre
L'aimable siècle où l'homme dit à l'homme, / Soyons frères, ou je t'assomme
L'Allégorie habite un palais diaphane
L'Allegro
L'âme n'a pas de secret que la conduite ne révèle
L'âme qui n'a point de but établi, elle se perd; c'est n'être en aucun bien, qu'être par tout
L'ami du genre humain n'est point du tout mon fait
L'amitié est l'amour sans ailes
L'amour apprend aux ânes à danser
L'amour de la justice n'est, en la plus part des hommes, que la crainte de souffrir l'injustice
L'amour est le roman du cœur, / Et le plaisir en est l'histoire
L'amour est un vrai recommenceur
L'amour est une passion qui vient souvent
sans savoir comment, et qui s'en va aussi de même
L'amour et la fumée ne peuvent se cacher
L'amour-propre est le plus grand de tous les flatteurs
L'amour-propre est un ballon gonflé de vent, dont il sort des tempêtes quand on lui fait une piqûre
L'amour-propre offensé ne pardonne jamais
L'amour soumet la terre, assujettit les cieux, /
Les rois sont à ses pieds, il gouverne les dieux
L'anglais a les préjugés de l'orgueil, et les français ceux de la vanité
L'anime triste di coloro / Che visser senza infamia, e senza lodo
L'animal delle lunghe orecchie, dopo aver beveto dà calci al secchio
L'apparente facilité d'apprendre est cause de la perte des enfants
L'appétit vient en mangeant
L'arbre de la liberté ne croît qu'arrosé par le sang des tyrans
L'arco si rompe se sta troppo teso
L'argent est un bon passe-partout
L'argent est un bon serviteur et un méchant maître
L'art de vaincre est celui de mépriser la mort
L'asino che ha fame mangia d'ogni strame
L'aspettar del malo è mal peggiore / Forse che non parebbe il mal presente
L'atrocité des lois en empêche l'exécution
L'avare est comme ces amans qu'un excès d'amour empêche de jouir
L'avenir
L'élévation est au merité, ce que la parure est aux belles personnes
L'éloquence a fleuri le plus à Rome lorsque les affaires ont été en plus mauvais état
"L'empire, c'est la paix"
L'empire des lettres
L'ennui du beau, amène le goût du singulier
L'ennui naquit un jour de l'uniformité
L'enseigne fait la chalandise
L'esclave n'a qu'un maître; l'ambitieux en a autant qu'il y a de gens utiles à sa fortune
L'espérance est le songe d'un homme éveillé
L'esprit a son ordre, qui est par principes et
démonstrations, le cœur en a un autre
L'esprit de la conversation consiste bien moins à en montrer beaucoup qu'à en faire trouver aux autres
L'esprit de la plupart des femmes sert plus à fortifier leur folie que leur raison
L'esprit de modération doit être celui du législateur
L'esprit est le dieu des instants, le génie est le dieu des âges
L'esprit est toujours la dupe du cœur
L'esprit est une plante dont on ne sauroit arrêter la végétation sans la faire périr
L'esprit qu'on veut avoir, gâte celui qu'on a
L'esprit ressemble aux coquettes; ceux qui courent après lui sont ceux qu'il favorise le moins
"L'état, c'est moi"
L'état doit avoir aussi des entrailles
"L'Europe m'ennuie"
L'exactitude est la politesse des rois
L'excellence et la grandeur d'une âme brille et éclate d'avantage dans le mépris de richesse
L'expérience de beaucoup d'opinions donne à l'esprit beaucoup de flexibilité, et l'affermit dans celles qu'il croit les meilleures
L'imitazione del male supera sempre l'essempio;
come per il contrario l'imitazione del bene è sempre inferiore
L'impromptu est justement la pierre de touche de l'esprit
L'habit ne fait point le moine
L'heure est à Dieu, l'espérance à tous
L'histoire n'est que le tableau des crimes et des malheurs
L'homme absurde est celui qui ne change
jamais
L'homme est de glace aux vérités, / Il est de feu pour les mensonges
L'homme est sourd à ses maux tant qu'à ses intérêts quand il s'agit de ses plaisirs
L'homme est toujours l'enfant, et l'enfant toujours l'homme
L'homme est un apprenti, la douleur est son maître; / Et nul ne se connaît, tant qu'il n'a pas souffert
L'homme n'est jamais moins misérable que
quand il paraît dépourvu de tout
L'homme n'est ni ange ni bête, et le malheur veut que qui veut faire l'ange fait la bête
L'homme n'est qu'un roseau, le plus faible de la nature, mais c'est un roseau pensant
L'homme nécessaire
L'homme propose et Dieu dispose
L'homme vraiment libre ne veut que ce qu'il
peut, et fait ce qu'il lui plait
L'honneur acquis est caution de celui qu'on doit acquérir
L'hypocrisie est un hommage que le vice rend à la vertu
L'imagination est la folle du logis
L'imagination galope, le jugement ne va que le pas
L'impossibilité où nous sommes de prouver
que Dieu n'est pas, nous découvre son existence
L'incrédulité est une croyance, une religion très exigeante, qui a ses dogmes, sa liturgie, ses pratiques, ses rites ... son intolerance, ses superstitions
L'incroyable
L'industrie des hommes s'épuise à briguer les charges, il ne leur en reste plus pour en remplir les devoirs
L'influence féminine devient l'auxiliaire indispensable de tout pouvoir spirituel, comme le moyen âge l'a tant montré
L'ingegno, che spopola e che spalea / E l'asino d'un pubblico insolente, / Che mai lo pasce e sempre lo cavalca
L'injustice à la fin produit l'indépendance
L'institut des Jésuites est une épée, dont la poignée est à Rome et la pointe partout
L'Italia farà da se
L'occasion fait le larron
L'on espère de vieillir et l'on craint la vieillesse; c'est à dire l'on aime la vie et l'on fuit la mort
L'on ne peut aller loin dans l'amitié, si l'on n'est pas disposé à se pardonner, les uns aux autres, les petits défauts
L'on ne vaut dans ce monde que ce que l'on veut valoir
L'on se repent rarement de parler peu, très souvent de trop parler: maxime usée et triviale que tout le monde sait, et que tout le monde ne pratique pas
L'or est une chimère
L'orateur cherche par son discours un archevêché, l'apôtre fait des conversions; il mérite de trouver ce que l'autre cherche
L'oreille est le chemin du cœur
L'orgueil ne veut pas devoir, et l'amour-propre ne veut pas payer
L'ozio é il padre di tutti i visi
L'ultima che si perde è la speranza
L'une des marques de la médiocrité d'esprit est de toujours conter
L'union fait la force
L'usage fréquent des finesses est toujours l'effet d'une grande incapacité, et la marque d'un petit esprit
La beauté de l'esprit donne de l'admiration, celle de l'âme donne de l'estime, et celle du corps de l'amour
La beauté sans vertu est une fleur sans parfum
La biblioteca è l'nutrimento dell'anima
La bonne fortune et la mauvaise sont nécessaire à l'homme pour le rendre habile
La bride sur le cou
La buena vida padre y madre olvida
La carrière des lettres est plus épineuse que
celle de la fortune. Si vous avez le malheur d'être médiocre, voilà des remords pour la vie; si vous réussissiez, voilà des ennemis; vous marchez sur le bord d'un abîme entre le mépris et la haine
La carrière ouverte aux talents
La Charte sera désormais une vérité
La clémence des princes n'est souvent qu'une politique pour gagner l'affection des peuples
La colpa seguira la parte offensa / In grido, como suol
La condition par excellence de la vie, de la
santé et de la force chez l'être organisé, est l'action. C'est par l'action qu'il developpe ses facultés, qu'il en augmente l'énergie, et qu'il atteint la plénitude de sa destinée
La confiance fournit plus à la conversation que l'esprit
La conscience est la voix de l'âme, les passions sont la voix du corps
La constance des sages n'est que l'art de renfermer leur agitation dans leur cœur
La corruption de chaque gouvernement commence presque toujours par celle des principes
La cour est comme un édifice bâti de marbre;
je veux dire qu'elle est composée d'hommes fort durs mais fort polis
La cour ne rend pas content, elle empêche qu'on ne le soit ailleurs
La crainte suit le crime, et c'est son châtiment
La crédulité est plutôt une erreur qu'une faute, et les plus de gens de bien en sont susceptibles
La criaillerie ordinaire fait qu'on s'y accoutume et chacun la méprise
La critique est aisée, et l'art est difficile
La décence est le teint naturel de la vertu, et le fard du vice
La défense est un charme; on dit qu'elle assaisonne les plaisirs, et surtout ceux que l'amour nous donne
La diffidenza è la madre della sicurtà
La dissimulation la plus innocente n'est jamais sans inconvénient; criminel ou non, l'artifice est toujours dangereux, et presque inévitablement nuisible
La docte antiquité est toujours vénérable, / Je
ne la trouve pas cependant adorable
La donna è mobile
La durée de nos passions ne dépend pas plus de nous que la durée de notre vie
La faiblesse de l'ennemi fait notre propre force
La faim chasse le loup hors du bois
La fama degli eroi spetta un quarto alla loro
audacia, due quarti alla sorte e l'altro quarto ai loro delitti
La farina del Diavolo, va tutta in crusca
La farine du diable s'en va moitié en son
La faveur met l'homme au-dessus de ses égaux; et sa chute au-dessous
La femme est l'élément le plus moral de l'humanité
La feuille tombe à terre, ainsi tombe la beauté
La finesse n'est ni une trop bonne ni une très mauvaise qualité: elle flotte entre le vice et la vertu; il n'y a point de rencontre où elle ne puisse, et peut-être où elle ne doive être suppléée par la prudence
La fleur des pois
La force, proprement dite, c'est-ce qui régit les actes, sans régler les volontés
La fortune du pot
La fortune passe partout
La fortune vend ce qu'on croit qu'elle donne
La France est une monarchie absolue, tempérée par des chansons
La France marche à la tête de la civilisation
La garde meurt et ne se rend pas
La générosité suit la belle naissance; / La
pitié l'accompagne et la reconnaissance
La gola e'l sonno e l'oziose piume / Hanno del mondo ogni vertù sbandita
La goutte de rosée à l'herbe suspendue, / y réfléchit un ciel aussi vaste, aussi pur, / Que l'immense océan dans ses plaines d'azur
La grammaire, qui sait régenter jusqu'aux rois
La grande nation
La grande sagesse de l'homme consiste à
connaître ses folies
La guerre ou l'amour
La jeunesse devrait être une caisse d'épargne
La jeunesse vit d'espérance, la vieillesse de souvenir
La justice de nos jugements et de nos actions n'est jamais que la rencontre heureuse de notre intérêt avec l'intérêt public
La justice et la vérité sont deux pointes si
subtiles, que nos instrumens sont trop émoussés pour y toucher exactement
La langue des femmes est leur épée, et elles ne la laissent pas rouiller
La légalité nous tue
La libéralité consiste moins à donner beaucoup, qu'à donner à-propos
La libertad es la juventud eterna de las naciones
La liberté, convive aimable, / Met les deux
coudes sur la table
La liberté est ancienne; c'est le despotisme qui est nouveau
La lingua batte dove la dente duole
La loi ne saurait égaliser les hommes malgré la nature
La maladie sans maladie.
La manière de former les idées est ce qui donne
caractère à l'esprit humain
La marque d'un mérite extraordinaire est de voir que ceux qui l'envient le plus, sont contraints de le louer
La menzogna c'insegue anche sotterra
La mode est un tyran dont rien nous délivre, / A son bizarre goût il faut s'accommoder
La modération des faibles est médiocrité
La moitié du monde prend plaisir à médire, et
l'autre moitié à croire les médisances
La moltiplicità delle leggi e dei medici in un paese sono egualmente segni di malore di quello
La montagne est passée, nous irons mieux
La moquerie est souvent indigence d'esprit
La morale trop austère se fait moins aimer qu'elle ne se fait craindre; et qui veut qu'on profite de ses leçons donne envie de les entendre
La mort est plus aisée à supporter sans y
penser, que la pensée de la mort sans péril
La mort ne surprend point le sage; / Il est toujours prêt à partir, / S'étant su lui-même avertir / Du temps où l'on se doit résoudre à ce passage
La musique seule est d'une noble inutilité, et c'est pour cela qu'elle nous émeut si profondément; plus elle est loin de tout but, plus elle se rapproche de cette source intime de nos pensées que l'application à un objet quelconque reserve dans son cours
La naissance n'est rien où la vertu n'est pas
La nation en deuil
La nation ne fait pas corps en France; elle
réside toute entière dans la personne du roy
La nature a donné deux garants de la chastité des femmes, la pudeur et les remords; la confession les prive de l'un, et l'absolution de l'autre
La nature aime les croisements
La nature est juste envers les hommes
La nature s'imite
La nuit porte conseil
Là ou ailleurs
Là où la chèvre est attachée, il faut qu'elle broute
La parfaite valeur est de faire sans témoins ce qu'on serait capable de faire devant tout le monde
La parole a été donnée à l'homme pour déguiser sa pensée
La passion déprave, mais elle élève aussi
La passion fait souvent un fou du plus habile homme, et rend souvent habiles les plus sots
La patience est amère, mais le fruit en est doux
La patience est l'art d'espérer
La patience est le remède le plus sûre contre les calomnies: le temps, tôt ou tard, découvre la vérité
La patrie veut être servie, et non pas dominée
La pauvreté n'est pas un péché, / Mieux vaut cependant la cacher
La perfection marche lentement, il lui faut la main du temps
La peur est un grand inventeur
La philosophie non seulement dissipe nos inquiétudes,
mais elle nous arme contre tous les coups de la fortune
La philosophie qui nous promet de nous rendre heureux, trompe
La philosophie triomphe aisément des maux passés, et des maux à venir; mais les maux présents triomphent d'elle
La plupart des hommes, pour arriver à leurs fins, sont plus capables d'un grand effort que d'une longue persévérance
La plupart des peuples, ainsi que des hommes, ne sont dociles que dans leur jeunesse; ils deviennent incorrigibles en vieillisant
La plupart des troubles de ce monde sont
grammairiens
La plus belle victoire est de vaincre son cœur
La plus courte folie est toujours la meilleure
La plus part des hommes emploient la première partie de leur vie à rendre l'autre misérable
La plus part des hommes n'ont pas le courage de corriger les autres, parcequ'ils n'ont pas le courage de souffrir qu'on les corrige
La poesia non muore
La politesse est l'art de rendre à chacun sans effort ce que lui est socialement dû
La popularité c'est la gloire en gros sous
La prière est un cri d'espérance
La propriété c'est le vol
La propriété exclusive est un vol dans la
nature
La prospérité fait peu d'amis
La raison du plus fort est toujours la meilleure
La raison émancipée n'a pas nui à la cause de Dieu; elle l'a servie
La raison seule peut faire des lois obligatoires et durables
La recherche de la paternité est interdite
La recherche du vrai, et la pratique du bien, sont les deux objets les plus importants de la philosophie
La reconnaissance est un fardeau, et tout fardeau est fait pour être secoué
La réputation d'un homme est comme son ombre, qui tantôt le suit, et tantôt le précède; quelquefois elle est plus longue, et quelquefois plus courte que lui
La roche Tarpéienne est près du Capitole
La ruse est le talent des égoïstes, et ne peut
tromper que les sots que prennent la turbulence pour l'esprit, la gravité pour la prudence, effronterie pour le talent, l'orgueil pour la dignité.
La sage conduite roule sur deux pivots, le passé et l'avenir
La sauce vaut mieux que le poisson
La science du gouvernement n'est qu'une science de combinaisons, d'applications et d'exceptions, selon le temps, les lieux, les circonstances
La seule vertu distingue les hommes, dès qu'ils sont morts
La silence est la vertu de ceux qui ne sont
pas sages
La speranza è l'ultima ch'abbandona l'infelice
La tempérance et le travail sont les deux vrais médicins de l'homme
La terre est couverte de gens qui ne méritent pas qu'on leur parle
La verdad es hija de Dios
La verdad es sempre verde
La vérité est cachée au fond du puits
La vérité ne fait pas autant de bien dans le
monde que ses apparences y font de mal
La vertu a des appas qui nous portent au véritable bonheur
La vertu dans l'indigence est comme un voyageur, que le vent et la pluie contraignent de s'envelopper de son manteau
La virtù è simile ai profumi, che rendono più grato odore quando triturati
La vertu est la seule noblesse
La vertu est partout la même: c'est qu'elle
vient de Dieu, et le reste est des hommes
La vertu fut toujours en minorité sur la terre
La vertu n'iroit pas si loin, si la vanité ne lui tenait compagnie
La vicinanza de' grandi sempre è pericolosa ai picoli; sono grandi come il fuoco, che brucia eziandio quei che vi gettano dell' incenso se troppo vi si approsimino
La vida es corta y la esperanza larga, / El bien huye de mi y el mal se alarga
La vie des héros a enrichi l'histoire, et l'histoire
a embelli les actions des héros
La vieillesse nous attache plus de rides en l'esprit qu'en visage
La ville est le séjour de profanes humains, les dieux habitent la campagne
La violence est juste où la douceur est vaine
La volontà è tutto
La vraie science et le vrai étude de l'homme,
c'est l'homme
Labitur et labetur in omne volubilis ævum
Labitur occulte, fallitque volubilis ætas
Labor ipse voluptas
Labor omnia vincit / Improbus, et duris urgens in rebus egestas
Laborare est orare
Labore
Labore et honore
Labore vinces
Laborum dulce lenimen
Labour bestowed on nothing is fruitless.
Labour endears rest, and both together are absolutely necessary for the proper enjoyment of human existence.
Labour for labour's sake is against nature.
Labour has a bitter root but a sweet taste.
Labour is exercise continued to fatigue; exercise is labour used only while it produces pleasure.
Labour is life. From the inmost heart of the
worker rises his God-given force--the sacred celestial life-essence breathed into him by Almighty God.
Labour is preferable to idleness, as brightness to rust.
Labour is the beginning, the middle, and the end of art.
Labour is the fabled magician's wand, the philosopher's stone, and the cap of Fortunatus.
Labour is the instituted means for the methodical development of all our powers under the direction and control of the will.
Labour is the Lethe of both past and present.
Labour is the ornament of the citizen; the reward of toil is when you confer blessings on others; his high dignity confers honour on the king; be ours the glory of our hands.
Labour is the talisman that has raised man from the condition of the savage.
Labour itself is but a sorrowful song, / The protest of the weak against the strong.
Labour, if it were not necessary for the existence, would be indispensable for the happiness, of man.
Labour, like everything else that is good, is
its own reward.
Labour like this our want supplies, / And they must stoop who mean to rise.
Labour of the hands, even when pursued to the verge of drudgery, is perhaps never the worst form of idleness (for the mind); it has a constant and imperishable moral.
Labour past is pleasant.
Labour to keep alive in your breast that little spark of celestial fire--conscience.
Labour, wide as the earth, has its summit in heaven.
Labour with what zeal we will, / Something
still remains undone, / Something uncompleted still / Waits the rising of the sun.
Lachen, Weinen, Lust und Schmerz / Sind Geschwister-Kinder
Lacrymæque decoræ, / Gratior et pulchro veniens in corpore virtus
Lactuca innatat acri / Post vinum stomacho
Lad's love is lassie's delight, / And if lads won't love, lassies will flite
Lad's love's a busk of broom, hot awhile and
soon done.
Lade nicht alles in ein Schiff
Ladies like variegated tulips show; / 'Tis to their changes half their charms they owe.
Læso et invicto militi
Lætus in præsens animus, quod ultra est / Oderit curare, et amara lento / Temperet risu. Nihil est ab omni / Parte beatum
Lætus sorte tua vives sapienter
Lætus sum laudari a laudato viro
Laisser dire le monde, et toujours bien faire, c'est une maxime, qui étant bien observée assure notre repos, et établit enfin notre réputation
Laissez dire les sots, le savoir a son prix
Laissez faire, laissez passer!
Laissez faire--the "let alone" principle, is, in
all things which man has to do with, the principle of death. It is ruin to him, certain and total, if he lets his land alone--if he lets his fellow-men alone--if he lets his own soul alone.
Laissez-leur prendre un pied chez vous, / Ils en auront bientôt pris quatre
Lamenting becomes fools, and action wise folk.
Lampoons and satires, that are written with wit and spirit, are like poisoned darts, which not only inflict a wound, but make it incurable.
Land is the right basis of an aristocracy. No true aristocracy but must possess the land.
Land of lost gods and godlike men.
Land should be given to those who can use it, and tools to those who can use them.
Land was never lost for want of an heir.
Lands intersected by a narrow firth / Abhor each other. Mountains interposed / Make enemies of nations, which had else, / Like kindred drops, been mingled into one.
Lands mortgaged may return, and more esteemed; / But honesty once pawned is ne'er redeemed.
Lang ill, soon weel.
Lang syne, in Eden's bonny yaird, / When youthfu' lovers first were pair'd, / And all the soul of love they shared, / The raptured hour, / Sweet on the fragrant flowery swaird, / In shady bower, / Then you, ye auld sneck-drawing
Lang syne, in Eden's bonny yaird, / When youthfu' lovers first were pair'd, / And all the soul of love they shared, / The raptured hour, / Sweet on the fragrant flowery swaird, / In shady bower, / Then you, ye auld sneck-drawing (latch-lifting) 

Langage des halles
Lange ist nicht ewig
Lange Ueberlegungen zeigen gewöhnlich, dass man den Punkt nicht im Auge hat, von dem die Rede ist; übereilte Handlungen, dass man ihn gar nicht kennt
Langes Leben heisst viele überleben
Langeweile ist ein böses Kraut / Aber auch eine Würze, die viel verdaut
Langh festjen is nin brae sperjen
Langsam nur im Menschengeiste / Reift das Saatkorn der Erkenntniss, / Doch die Blumen wachsen schnell
Language at its infancy is all poetry.
Language is always wise.
Language is fossil poetry.
Language is not only the vehicle of thought, it is a great and efficient instrument in thinking.
Language is only clear when it is sympathetic.
Language is properly the servant of thought, but not unfrequently it becomes its master.
Language is the armoury of the human mind, and at once contains the trophies of its past, and the weapons of its future, conquests.
Language is the dress of thought.
Language is the memory of the human race. It is a thread or nerve of life running through all the ages, connecting them into one common, prolonged, and advancing existence.
Language most shows a man; speak that I may see thee.
Languages are more properly to be called
vehicles of learning than learning itself.... True knowledge consists in knowing things, not words.
Languages are the barometers of national thought and character.
Languages are the pedigree of nations.
Lapidary inscriptions should be historical rather than lyrical.
Lapis philosophorum
Lapis qui volvitur algam non generat
Lapsus memoriæ
Lares et penates
Large bodies are far more likely to err than individuals. The passions are inflamed by sympathy; the fear of punishment and the sense of shame are diminished by partition. Every day we see men do for their faction what they would die rather than do for themselves.
Large charity doth never soil, but only whiten, soft white hands.
Large fortunes are all founded either on occupation
of land, or usury, or taxation of labour.
Large fortunes cannot be made by the work of any one man's hands or head.
Large masses of mankind, in every society of our Europe, are no longer capable of living at all by the things which have been.
Largitio fundum non habet
Las manos blancas no ofenden
Lasciate ogni speranza, voi ch'entrate
Lascivi soboles gregis
Lass das Vergangne vergangen sein
Lass deine Zunge nie das Amt des Schwertes führen
Lass dich nicht verblüffen
Lass die Leute reden und die Hunde bellen
Lass die schwerste Pflicht dir die allerheiligste Pflicht sein
Lass die Winde stürmen auf des Lebens Bahn, / Ob sie Wogen türmen gegen deinen Kahn. / Schiffe ruhig weiter, wenn der Mast auch bricht, / Gott ist dein Begleiter, er vergisst dich nicht
Lass diesen Händedruck dir sagen / Was unaussprechlich ist
Lass ruhn, lass ruhn die Toten, / Du weckst sie mit Klagen nicht auf
Lasses and glasses are brittle wares.
Lasst fahren hin das allzu Flüchtige! / Ihr sucht bei ihm vergebens Rat! / In dem Vergangnen lebt das Tüchtige / Verewigt sich in schöner That
Lasst uns hell denken, so werden wir feurig lieben
Last come, worst served.
Last in bed, best heard.
Last, not least.
Last scene of all, ... / Is second childishness and mere oblivion; / Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.
Late children are early orphans.
Late fruit keeps well.
Lateat scintillula forsan
Laterem laves
Latet anguis in herba
Latitat
Latius regnes, avidum domando / Spiritum, quam si Libyam remotis / Gadibus jungas, et uterque Pœnus / Serviat uni
Latrante uno, latrat statim et alter canis
Latrantem curatne alta Diana canem?
Laudant quod non intelligunt
Laudari a viro laudato maxima est laus
Laudat venales qui vult extrudere merces
Laudato ingentia rura, / Exiguum colito
Laudator temporis acti
Laudatur ab his, culpatur ab illis
Laudatus abunde, / Non fastiditus si tibi, lector, ero
Laudem virtutis necessitati damus
Laudibus arguitur vini vinosus
Laudo Deum verum, plebem voco, congrego
clerum, / Defunctos ploro, pestem fugo, festa decoro
Laudo manentem; si celeres quatit / Pennas, resigno quæ dedit, et mea / Virtute me involvo probamque / Pauperiem sine dote quæro
Laugh and be fat.
Laugh at all twaddle about fate. A man's fate is what he makes it, nothing else.
Laugh at leisure; ye may greet
Laugh not too much: the witty man laughs
least: / For wit is news only to ignorance. / Less at thine own things laugh: lest in the jest / Thy person share, and the conceit advance.
Laugh where we must, be candid where we can, / But vindicate the ways of God to man.
Laughing cheerfulness throws the light of day on all the paths of life; sorrow is more confusing and distracting than so-called giddiness.
Laughter almost ever cometh of things most disproportioned to ourselves.
Laughter and tears are meant to turn the wheels of the same machinery of sensibility; one is wind-power, and the other water-power, that is all.
Laughter, holding both his sides.
Laughter is akin to weeping, and true humour is as closely allied to pity as it is abhorrent to derision.
Laughter is one of the very privileges of reason, being confined to the human species.
Laughter is the cipher-key wherewith we decipher the whole man.
Laughter leaves us doubly serious shortly after.
Laughter makes good blood.
Laughter should dimple the cheek, not furrow the brow.
Laus Deo
Laus est facere quod decet, non quod licet
Laus in proprio ore sordescit
Laus magna natis obsequi parentibus
Lavish promises lessen credit.
Lavishness is not generosity.
Law and equity are two things which God hath joined, but which man hath put asunder.
Law cannot persuade when it cannot punish.
Law has her seat in the bosom of God, her
voice in the harmony of the world.
Law is a bottomless pit; keep far from it.
Law is a lottery.
Law is not law if it violates the principles of eternal justice.
Law is powerful, necessity more so.
Law it is which is without name, or colour, or
hands, or feet; which is smallest of the least, and largest of the large; all, and knowing all things; which hears without ears, sees without eyes, moves without feet, and seizes without hands.
Law licks up a'.
Law-makers should not be law-breakers.
Law, man's sole guardian ever since the day when the old brazen age in sadness saw love fly the world.
Law teaches us to know when we commit injury and when we suffer it.
Law that shocks equity is reason's murderer.
Lawless are they that make their wills their law.
Laws act after crimes have been committed; prevention goes before them both.
Laws and rights are transmitted like an inveterate hereditary disease.
Laws are generally found to be nets of such texture as the little creep through, the great break through, and the middle size are alone entangled in.
Laws are intended to guard against what
men may do, not to trust what they will do.
Laws are like cobwebs, which may catch small flies, but let wasps and hornets break through.
Laws are like spider webs, small flies are ta'en, / While greater flies break in and out again.
Laws are not made for particular cases, but for men in general.
Laws are not made like nets--to catch, but like sea-marks--to guide.
Laws are not masters, but servants, and he
rules them who obeys them.
Laws are not our life, only the house wherein our life is led; nay, they are but the bare walls of the house; all whose essential furniture, the inventions and traditions and daily habits that regulate and support our existence, are the work not of Dracos and Hampdens, but of Phœnician mariners, of Italian masons, and Saxon metallurgists, of philosophers, alchymists, prophets, and the long-forgotten train of artists and artisans, who from the first have been jointly teaching us how to think and how to act, how to rule over spiritual and physical nature.
Laws are the silent assessors of God.
Laws are the sovereigns of sovereigns.
Laws are the very bulwarks of liberty. They define every man's rights, and stand between and defend the individual liberties of all.
Laws are usually most beneficial in operation on the people who would have most strongly objected to their enactment.
Law's costly; tak' a pint and 'gree.
Laws exist in vain for those who have not the courage and the means to defend them.
Laws grind the poor, and rich men rule the
law.
Laws, like cobwebs, catch flies, but let hornets go free.
Laws of Nature are God's thoughts thinking themselves out in the orbs and the tides.
Laws should be like death, which spares no one.
Laws undertake to punish only overt acts.
Laws were made for rogues.
Laws, written, if not on stone tables, yet on the azure of infinitude, in the inner heart of God's creation, certain as life, certain as death, are there, and thou shalt not disobey them.
Lawyers and painters can soon make black white.
Lawyers and woodpeckers have long bills.
Lawyers are always more ready to get a man into troubles than out of them.
Lawyers are needful to keep us out of law.
Lawyers' houses are built of fools' heads.
Lawyers, of whose art the basis / Is raising feuds and splitting cases.
Lawyers' robes are lined with the obstinacy of litigants.
Lawyers will live as long as mine and thine does.
Lay by, like ants, a little store, / For summer
lasts not evermore.
Lay by something for a rainy day.
Lay not all the load on the lame horse.
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul.
Lay not thine heart open to every one, but treat of thy affairs with the wise and such as fear God.
Lay the blame at the right door.
Lay the proud usurpers low! / Tyrants fall in every foe! / Liberty's in every blow! / Forward! let us die.
Lay thy hand upon thy halfpenny twice before thou partest with it.
Lay up and lay out should go together.
Lay up that you may lay out.
Lazarus did not go to Abraham's bosom because
he was poor, or every sluggard would go there easily.
Laziness begins with cobwebs and ends with iron chains.
Laziness is nothing unless you carry it out.
Laziness travels so slowly that poverty soon overtakes him.
Lazy as Ludlam's dog, that laid his head against the wall to bark.
Lazy folks ask for work with their lips, but
their hearts pray God that they may not find it.
Lazy folk's stomachs don't get tired.
Lazy is the hand that ploughs not.
Le beau monde
Le bestemmie fanno come le processioni; ritornano donde partirono
Le bien ne se fait jamais mieux que lorsqu'il
opère lentement
Le bon sens vulgaire est un mauvais juge quand il s'agit des grandes choses
Le bon temps viendra
Le bonheur de l'homme en cette vie ne consiste pas à être sans passions, il consiste à en être le maître
Le bonheur des méchants comme un torrent s'écoule
Le bonheur des peuples dépend et de la félicité
dont ils jouissent au dedans et du respect qu'ils inspirent au dehors
Le bonheur et le malheur des hommes ne dépendent pas moins de leur humeur que de la fortune
Le bonheur n'est pas chose aisée; il est très-difficile de le trouver en nous, et impossible de le trouver ailleurs
Le bonheur ne peut être / Où la vertu n'est pas
Le bonheur ou le malheur vont ordinairement à ceux qui ont le plus de l'un ou de l'autre
Le bonheur semble fait pour être partagé
Le bruit est si fort, qu'on n'entend pas Dieu tonner
Le bruit est pour le fat, la plainte est pour le sot, / L'honnête homme trompé s'éloigne et ne dit mot
Le chemin est long du projet à la close
Le ciel me prive d'une épouse qui ne m'a jamais donné d'autre chagrin que celui de sa mort
Le citoyen peut périr, et l'homme rester
Le cœur a ses raisons, que la raison ne connoit pas
Le cœur de l'homme n'est jamais si inflexible que son esprit
Le cœur d'une femme est un vrai miroir qui
reçoit toutes sortes d'objets sans s'attacher à aucun
Le congrès ne marche pas; il danse
Le conquérant est craint, le sage est estimé, / Mais le bienfaiteur plait, et lui seul est aimé
Le conseil manque à l'âme, / Et le guide au chemin
Le contraire des bruits qui courent des affaires, ou des personnes, est souvent la vérité
Le contrat du gouvernement est tellement dissous
par despotisme que le despot n'est le maître qu'aussi long temps qu'il est le plus fort; et que si tôt qu'on peut l'expulser, il n'a point à réclaimer contre la violence
Le corps politique, aussi bien que le corps de l'homme, commence à mourir dès sa naissance, et porte en lui-même les causes de sa destruction
Le cose non sono come sono, ma come si vedono
Le courage est souvent un effet de la peur
Le coûte en ôte le goût
Le cri d'un peuple heureux est la seule éloquence
qui doit parler des rois
Le crime fait la honte, et non pas l'échafaud
Le désespoir comble non seulement notre misère, mais notre faiblesse
Le désespoir redouble les forces
Le despotisme tempéré par l'assassinat, c'est notre Magna Charta
Le dessous des cartes
Le devoir, c'est l'âme intérieure, c'est la vie de l'éducation
Le devoir des juges est de rendre justice, leur métier est de la différer; quelques uns savent leur devoir, et font leur métier
Le diable était beau quand il était jeune
Le divorce est le sacrement de l'adultère
Le doute s'introduit dans l'âme qui rêve, la foi
descend dans l'âme qui souffre
Le droit est au plus fort en amour comme en guerre, / Et la femme qu'on aime aura toujours raison
Le feu qui semble éteint souvent dort dans la cendre
Le génie c'est la patience
Le génie n'est autre chose qu'une grande aptitude à la patience
Le géologue est un nouveau genre d'antiquaire
Le gouvernement représentatif est la justice organisée, la raison vivante, la morale armée
Le grand art de la supériorité, c'est de saisir les hommes par leur bon côté
Le grand monarque
Le grandeur et le discernement sont des choses différentes, et l'amour pour la vertu, et pour les vertueux une troisième chose
Le hasard donne les pensées; le hazard les
ôte: point d'art pour conserver ni pour acquérir
Le hasard est un sobriquet de la Providence
Le jeu est le fils de l'avarice et le père du désespoir
Le jeu n'en vaut pas la chandelle
Le jour viendra
Le masque tombe, l'homme reste / Et le héros s'évanouit
Le mauvais métier que celui de censeur
Le méchant n'est jamais comique
Le médicin Tant-pis et le médicin Tant-mieux
Le mérité est souvent un obstacle à la fortune;
c'est qu'il produit toujours deux mauvais effets, l'envie et la crainte
Le mieux est l'ennemi du bien
Le moindre grain de mil serait bien mieux mon affaire
Le moineau en la main vaut mieux que l'oie qui vole
Le monde, chère Agnès, est une étrange chose
Le monde est le livre des femmes
Le monde est plein de fous, et qui n'en veut pas voir / Doit se tenir tout seul et casser son miroir
Le monde paye d'ingratitude
Le monde savant
Le mort est le dernier trait du tableau de la vie
Le mot de l'énigme
Le moy est haïssable
Le moyen le plus sûr de se consoler de tout ce qui peut arriver, c'est de s'attendre toujours au pire
Le nombre des élus au Parnasse est complet
Le nombre des sages sera toujours petit
Le parjure est une vertu, / Lorsque le serment
fut un crime
Le pas
Le pays du mariage a cela de particulier, que les étrangers ont envie de l'habiter, et les habitans naturels voudroient en être exilés
Le pédant et l'instituteur disent à peu près les mêmes choses; mais le premier les dit à tout propos: le second ne les dit que quand il est sûr de leur effet
Le petit monde
Le peuple anglais pense être libre; il ne l'est
que durant l'élection des membres du parlement
Le peuple est le cœur du pays
Le peuple ne comprend que ce qu'il sent. Les seuls orateurs pour lui sont ceux qui l'émeuvent
Le plaisir le plus délicat est de faire celui d'autrui
Le plus âne des trois n'est pas celui qu'on pense
Le plus dangereux ridicule des vieilles personnes
qui sont aimables, c'est d'oublier qu'elles ne le sont plus
Le plus lent à promettre est toujours le plus fidèle à tenir
Le plus sage est celui qui ne pense point l'être
Le plus semblable aux morts meurt le plus à regret
Le plus véritable marque d'être né avec de grandes qualités, c'est d'être né sans envie
Le premier écu est plus difficile à gagner que
le second million
Le premier soupir de l'amour est le dernier de la sagesse
Le présent est gros de l'avenir
Le présent est pour ceux qui jouissent, l'avenir pour ceux qui souffrent
Le public! combien faut-il de sots pour faire un public?
Le réel est étroit, le possible est immense
Le refus des louanges est souvent un désir d'être loué deux fois
Le repos est une bonne chose, mais l'ennui est son frère
Le reste ne vaut pas l'honneur d'être nommé
Le roi est mort; vive le roi!
Le roy et l'état
Le roi le veut
Le roi régne et ne gouverne pas
Le roi s'avisera
Le sage entend à demi-mot
Le sage quelquefois évite le monde de peur d'être ennuyé
Le sage songe avant que de parler à ce qu'il
doit dire; le fou parle, et ensuite songe à ce qu'il a dit
Le savoir faire
Le savoir vivre
Le secret d'ennuyer est celui de tout dire
Le sens commun est le génie de l'humanité
Le sentiment de la liberté est plus vif, plus il
y entre de malignité
Le silence du peuple est la leçon des rois
Le silence est l'esprit des sots, / Et l'une des vertus du sage
Le silence est la vertu de ceux qui ne sont pas sages
Le silence est le parti le plus sûr pour celui qui se défie de soi-même
Le soleil ni la mort ne se peuvent regarder
fixement
Le sort fait les parents, le choix fait les amis
Le style est l'homme même
Le superflu, chose très-nécessaire
Le temps est un grand maître, il régle bien les choses
Le temps guérit les douleurs et les querelles,
parcequ'on change, on n'est plus la même personne
Le temps n'épargne pas ce qu'on fait sans lui
Le tout ensemble
Le travail du corps délivre des peines de l'esprit; et c'est ce qui rend les pauvres heureux
Le travail éloigne de nous trois grand maux, l'ennui, le vice, et le besoin
Le trépas vient tout guérir; / Mais ne bougeons
d'où nous sommes: / Plutôt souffrir que mourir, / C'est la devise des hommes
Le trident de Neptune est le sceptre du monde
Le vesciche galleggiano sopre aqua, mentre le cose di peso vanno al fondo
Le vivre et le couvert, que faut-il davantage?
Le vrai mérite ne dépend point du temps ni de la mode
Le vrai moyen d'être trompé, c'est de se croire
plus fin que les autres
Le vrai n'est pas toujours vraisemblable
Le vrai peut quelquefois n'être pas vraisemble
Lead, kindly light, amid th' encircling gloom, / Lead thou me on.
Lead thine own captivity captive, and be Cæsar within thyself.
Leal heart leed never.
Lean liberty is better than fat slavery.
Lean not upon a broken reed, which will not only let thee fall, but pierce thy arm too.
Lean, rent, and beggared by the strumpet wind!
Learn a craft while you are young, that you may not have to live by craft when you are old.
Learn never to repine at your own misfortunes,
or to envy the happiness of another.
Learn of the little nautilus to sail, / Spread the thin oar and catch the driving gale.
Learn taciturnity; let that be your motto.
Learn that nonsense is none the less nonsense because it is in rhyme; and that rhyme without a purpose or a thought that has not been better expressed before is a public nuisance, only to be tolerated because it is good for trade.
Learn the value of a man's words and expressions, and you know him. Each man has a measure of his own for everything; this he offers you inadvertently in his words. He who has a superlative for everything wants a measure for the great or small.
Learn to be good readers, which is perhaps a
more difficult thing than you imagine. Learn to be discriminative in your reading; to read faithfully, and with your best attention, all kinds of things which you have a real interest in--a real, not an imaginary--and which you find to be really fit for what you are engaged in.
Learn to be pleased with everything; with wealth so far as it makes us of benefit to others; with poverty, for not having much to care for; and with obscurity, for being unenvied.
Learn to creep before you leap.
Learn to hold thy tongue. Five words cost Zacharias forty weeks' silence.
Learn to labour and to wait.
Learn to say before you sing.
Learn to say No! and it will be of more use to you than to be able to read Latin.
Learn wisdom from the follies of others.
Learn you a bad habit, an' ye'll ca'd a custom.
Learn young, learn fair; / Learn auld, learn mair.
Learned fools are the greatest of all fools.
Learned Theban.
Learned without sense and venerably dull.
Learning by study must be won, / 'Twas ne'er entail'd from son to son.
Learning hath gained most by those books by which printers have lost.
Learning hath its infancy, when it is almost
childish; then its youth, when luxurious and juvenile; then its strength of years, when solid; and lastly its old age, when dry and exhaust.
Learning is a companion on a journey to a strange country.
Learning is a dangerous weapon, and apt to wound its master if it is wielded by a feeble hand, and by one not well acquainted with its use.
Learning is a livelihood.
Learning is a sceptre to some, a bauble to others.
Learning is a superior sight.
Learning is an addition beyond / Nobility of birth; honour of blood, / Without the ornament of knowledge, is / A glorious ignorance.
Learning is better than hidden treasure.
Learning is better worth than house or land.
Learning is but an adjunct to ourself; / And, where we are, our learning likewise is.
Learning is not to be tacked to the mind, but
we must fuse and blend them together, not merely giving the mind a slight tincture, but a thorough and perfect dye.
Learning is pleasurable, but doing is the height of enjoyment.
Learning is strength inexhaustible.
Learning is the dictionary, but sense the grammar, of science.
Learning is the source of renown, and the fountain of victory in the senate.
Learning itself, received into a mind / By
nature weak or viciously inclined, / Serves but to lead philosophers astray, / Where children would with ease discern the way.
Learning, like money, may be of so base a coin as to be utterly devoid of use; or, if sterling, may require good management to make it serve the purpose of sense and happiness.
Learning, like the lunar beam, affords light, not heat.
Learning makes a man a fit companion for himself.
Learning makes a man wise, but a fool is made all the more a fool by it.
Learning needs rest; sovereignty gives it.
Sovereignty needs counsel; learning affords it.
Learning once made popular is no longer learning.
Learning passes for wisdom among them who want both.
Learning puffeth men up; words are but wind, and learning is nothing but words; ergo, learning is nothing but wind.
Learning to a man is a name superior to beauty.
Learning to the inexperienced is a poison.
Learning without thought is labour lost.
Least said is soonest mended.
Leave a jest when it pleases you best.
Leave a man to his passions, and you leave a wild beast of a savage and capricious nature.
Leave a welcome behind you.
Leave all piggies' ears alone rather than seize upon the wrong one.
Leave all things to a Father's will, / And taste, before him lying still, / Even in affliction, peace.
Leave all to God, / Forsaken one, and stay thy tears!
Leave Ben Lomond where it stands.
Leave her to heaven, / And to those thorns
that in her bosom lodge, / To prick and sting her.
Leave it if you cannot mend it.
Leave not the meat to gnaw the bones, / Nor break your teeth on worthless stones.
Leave off no clothes / Till you see a June rose.
"Leave off your fooling and come down, sir."
Leave the court ere the court leave you.
Leave the great ones of the world to manage their own concerns, and keep your eyes and observations at home.
Leave this keen encounter of our wits, / And fall somewhat into a slower method.
Leave to-morrow till to-morrow.
Leave to the diamond its ages to grow, nor expect to accelerate the births of the eternal.
Leave well alone.
Leave you your power to draw, / And I shall have no power to follow you.
Leaves enough, but few grapes.
Leaves have their time to fall, / And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath, / And stars to set; but all, / Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O death!
Leaving for gleaner makes farmer no leaner.
Lebe, wie du, wenn du stirbst, / Wünschen wirst, gelebt zu haben
Leben athme die bildende Kunst, / Geist fordr' ich vom Dichter
Leben heisst träumen: weise sein heisst
angenehm träumen
Leberide cæcior
Led by illusions romantic and subtle deceptions of fancy, / Pleasure disguised as duty, and love in the semblance of friendship.
 (l
Leeze me o' drink; it gies us mair / Than either school or college; / It kindles wit, it fu' o' knowledge.
Legant prius et postea despeciant
Legatus a latere
Lege totum si vis scire totum
Legem brevem esse oportet quo facilius ab imperitis teneatur
Leges ad civium salutem, civitatumque incolumitatem conditæ sunt
Leges bonæ malis ex moribus procreantur
Leges mori serviunt
Leges posteriores priores contrarias abrogant
Leges sunt inventæ quæ cum omnibus semper una atque eadem voce loquerentur
Legimus ne legantur
Legis constructio non facit injuriam
Legum ministri magistratus, legum interpretes
judices; legum denique idcirco omnes servi sumus, ut liberi esse possimus
Leib und Seele schmachten in hundert Banden, die unzerreissbar sind, aber auch in hundert andern, die ein einziger Entschluss zerreisst
Leicht zu sättigen ist, und unersättlich, die Liebe
Leichter trägt, was er trägt, / Wer Geduld zur Bürde legt
Leisure and solitude are the best effect of riches, because mother of thought. Both are avoided by most rich men, who seek company and business, which are signs of their being weary of themselves.
Leisure for men of business, and business for
men of leisure, would cure many complaints.
Leisure is seldom enjoyed with perfect satisfaction except in solitude.
Leisure is the reward of labour.
Leisure is time for doing something useful; this leisure the diligent man will obtain; the lazy man never.
Lend, hoping for nothing again.
Lend only what you can afford to lose.
Length of saying makes languor of hearing.
Lenior et melior fis, accedente senecta
Leniter ex merito quidquid patiare ferendum est, / Quæ venit indigne pœna dolenda venit
Lenity is part of justice.
Lenity will operate with greater force, in some
instances, than rigour. It is, therefore, my first wish to have my whole conduct distinguished by it.
Leonem larva terres
Leonina societas
Leonum ora a magistris impune tractantur
Leporis vitam vivit
Lern' entbehren, O Freund, / Beut Trotz dem
Schmerz und dem Tode, / Und kein Gott des Olymps fühlet sich freier, als du
Lerne vom Schlimmsten Gutes, und Schlimmes nicht vom Besten
Les affaires? c'est bien simple: c'est l'argent des autres
Les affaires font les hommes
Les amertumes sont en morale ce que sont les amers en médicine
Les âmes privilégiées rangent à l'égal des
souverains
Les amis, ces parents que l'on se fait soi-même
Les amis de mes amis sont mes amis
Les anglais s'amusent tristement
Les beaux esprits se rencontrent
Les belles actions cachées sont les plus estimables
Les biens mal acquis s'en vont à vau-l'eau
Les biens viennent, les biens s'en vont, /
Comme la fumée, comme toute chose
Les bras croisés
Les cartes sont brouillées
Les choses valent toujours mieux dans leur source
Les cloches appellent à l'église, mais n'y entrent pas
Les consolations indiscrètes ne font qu'aigrir
les violentes afflictions
Les délicats sont malheureux, / Rien ne saurait les satisfaire
Les enfants sont ce qu'on les fait
Les envieux mourront, mais non jamais l'envie
Les esprits médiocres condamnent d'ordinaire tout ce qui passe leur portée
Les extrêmes se touchent
Les femmes ont toujours quelque arrière-pensée
Les femmes ont un instinct céleste pour le malheur
Les femmes peuvent tout, parcequ'elles gouvernent les personnes qui gouvernent tout
Les femmes sont extrêmes: elles sont meilleures ou pires que les hommes
Les gens qui ont peu d'affaires, sont de très
grands parleurs
Les gens sans bruit sont dangereux
Les girouettes qui sont placées le plus haut, tournent le mieux
Les grandes âmes ne sont pas celles qui ont moins de passions et plus de vertus que les âmes communes, mais celles seulement qui ont de plus grands desseins
Les grands et les petits ont mêmes accidents, et mêmes fâcheries et mêmes passions, mais l'un est au haut de la roue et l'autre près du centre, et ainsi moins agité par les mêmes mouvements
Les grands hommes ne se bornent jamais dans
leurs desseins
Les grands hommes sont non-seulement populaires: ils donnent la popularité à tout ce qu'ils touchent
Les grands ne sont grands que parceque nous sommes à genoux; relevons-nous!
Les grands noms abaissent, au lieu d'élever ceux qui ne les savent pas soutenir
Les grands seigneurs ont des plaisirs, le peuple a de la joie
Les haines sont si longues et si opiniâtres,
que le plus grand signe de mort dans un homme malade, c'est la réconciliation
Les hommes extrêmement heureux et les hommes extrêmement malheureux, sont également portés à la dureté
Les hommes font les lois, les femmes font les mœurs
Les hommes fripons en détail sont en gros de très honnêtes gens
Les hommes ne sont justes qu'envers ceux qu'ils aiment
Les hommes sont cause que les femmes ne
s'aiment point
Les hommes sont rares
Les honneurs changent les mœurs
Les honneurs coutent à qui veut les posséder
Les jeunes gens disent ce qu'ils font, les vieillards ce qu'ils ont fait, et les sots ce qu'ils ont envie de faire
Les jours se suivent et ne se ressemblent pas
Les magistrates, les rois n'ont aucune autorité sur les âmes; et pourvu qu'on soit fidèle aux lois de la société dans ce monde, ce n'est point à eux de se mêler de ce qu'on deviendra dans l'autre, où ils n'ont aucune inspection
Les maladies viennent à cheval, retournent à pied
Les malheureux qui ont de l'esprit trouvent des resources en eux-mêmes
Les maximes des hommes décèlent leur cœur
Les méchants sont toujours surpris de trouver
de l'habilité dans les bons
Les médiocrités croient égaler le génie en dépassant la raison
Les mœurs du prince contribuent autant à la liberté que les lois
Les mœurs se corrompent de jour en jour, et on ne saurait plus distinguer les vrais d'avec les faux amis
Les moissons, pour mûrir, ont besoin de rosée, / Pour vivre et pour sentir, l'homme a besoin des pleurs
Les mortels sont égaux; ce n'est point la naissance, /
C'est la seule vertu qui fait la différence
Les murailles
Les passions personelles se lassent et s'usent; les passions publiques jamais
Les passions sont les seuls orateurs qui persuadent toujours
Les passions sont les vents qui enflent les voiles du vaisseau; elles le submergent quelquefois, mais sans elles il ne pourrait voguer
Les passions sont les vents qui font aller notre
vaisseau, et la raison est le pilote qui le conduit; le vaisseau n'irait point sans les vents, et se perdrait sans le pilote
Les petits chagrins rendent tendre; les grands, dur et farouche
Les peuples une fois accoutumés à des maîtres ne sont plus en état de s'en passer
Les plaisirs sont amers si tôt qu'on en abuse
Les plus grands crimes ne coutent rien aux ambitieux, quand il s'agit d'une couronne
Les plus grands hommes d'une nation sont
ceux qu'elle met à mort
Les plus malheureux osent pleurer le moins
Les querelles ne dureraient pas longtemps, si le tort n'était que d'un côté
Les races se féminisent
Les républiques finissent par le luxe; les monarchies par la pauvreté
Les rivières sont des chemins qui marchent
Les sophistes ont ébranlé l'autel, mais ce sont les prêtres qui l'ont avili
Les sots depuis Adam sont en majorité
Les talents sont distribués par la nature, sans égard aux généalogies
Les utopies ne sont souvent que des vérités prématuriées
Les vérités sont des fruits qui ne doivent être
cueillis que bien mûrs
Les vers sont enfants de la lyre; / Il faut les chanter, non les lire
Les vertus se perdent dans l'intérêt comme les fleuves se perdent dans la mer
Les vieillards aiment à donner de bons préceptes, pour se consoler de n'être plus en état de donner de mauvais exemples
Les vieilles coutumes sont les bonnes coutumes
Les vieux fous sont plus fous que les jeunes
Les villes sont le gouffre de l'espèce humaine
Lèse-majesté
Leser, wie gefall' ich dir? / Leser, wie gefällst du mir?
Less in rising into lofty abstractions lies the difficulty, than in seeing well and lovingly the complexities of what is at hand.
Less of your courtesy and more of your purse.
Less of your honey and more of your honesty.
Lessons hard to learn are sweet to know.
Lessons of wisdom have never such power over us as when they are wrought into the heart through the groundwork of a story which engages the passions.
Lessons of wisdom open to our view / In all life's varied scenes of gay or gloomy hue.
Let a good pot have a good lid.
Let a hoard always be made, but not too
great a hoard.
Let a horse drink when he will, not what he will.
Let a man be a man, and a woman a woman.
Let a man be but born ten years sooner or ten years later, his whole aspect and performance shall be different.
Let a man believe in God, and not in names, places, and persons.
Let a man do his work; the fruit of it is the
care of Another than he.
Let a man overcome anger by love, let him overcome evil by good; let him overcome the greedy by liberality, the liar by truth.
Let a saint be ever so humble, he will have his wax taper.
Let a woman once give you a task, and you are hers, heart and soul; all your care and trouble lend new charms to her for whose sake they are taken.
Let ae deil ding
Let all things be done decently and in order.
Let anger's fire be slow to burn.
Let another do what thou wouldst do.
Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth; a stranger, and not thine own lips.
Let another's shipwreck be your beacon.
Let any man compare his present fortune
with the past, and he will probably find himself, upon the whole, neither better nor worse than formerly.
Let authors write for glory or reward; / Truth is well paid when she is sung and heard.
Let but the mirror be clear, this is the great point; the picture must and will be genuine.
Let but the public mind once become thoroughly corrupt, and all attempts to secure property, liberty, or life by mere force of laws written on parchment will be as vain as putting up printed notices in an orchard to keep off canker-worms.
Let byganes be byganes, / Wha's huffed at anither, / Dinna cloot the auld days / And the new anes thegither; / Wi' the fauts and the failings / O' past years be dune, / Wi a grip o' fresh freen'ship / A New-Year begin.
Let charity be warm if the weather be cold.
Let dogs delight to bark and bite, / For God hath made them so.
Let each tailor mend his own coat.
Let every bird sing its own note.
Let every eye negotiate for itself, and trust no agent.
Let every fox take care of his own brush.
Let every herring hang by its own tail.
Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.
Let every man come to God in his own way.
Let every man do what he was made for.
Let every man praise the bridge he goes over.
Let every minute be a full life to thee.
Let every one inquire of himself what he loveth, and he shall resolve himself of whence he is a citizen.
Let every one look to himself, and no one will be lost.
Let every tailor keep to his goose.
Let every thought too, soldier-like, be
stripped, / And roughly looked over.
Let ev'ry man enjoy his whim; / What's he to me or I to him?
Let fate do her worst; there are moments of joy, / Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy; / Which come in the nighttime of sorrow and care, / And bring back the features that joy used to wear.
Let fortune empty her whole quiver on me, / I have a soul that, like an ample shield, / Can take in all, and verge enough for more.
Let fouk bode weel, and strive to do their best; / Nae mair's required; let Heaven mak' out the rest.
Let gleaners glean, though crops be lean.
Let go desire, and thou shalt lay hold on peace.
Let go quarrel and contention, nor embroil thyself in trouble and differences by being over-solicitous in thy own defence.
Let go thy hold when a great wheel runs down a hill, lest it break thy neck with following it; but the great one that goes up the hill, let him draw thee after.
Let grace our selfishness expel, / Our earthliness refine.
Let her
give or keep, to live, and learn, and be, / All that not harms distinctive womanhood.
Let Hercules himself do what he may, / The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
Let him be kept from paper, pen, and ink; / So may he cease to write, and learn to think.
Let him count himself happy who lives remote from the gods of this world.
Let him tak' his fling, and find oot his ain wecht
Let him that does not know you buy you.
Let him that earns eat.
Let him that stole steal no more; but rather let him labour, working with his hands the thing which is good, that he may have to give to him that needeth.
Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall.
Let him who gives say nothing, and him who receives speak.
Let him who gropes painfully in darkness or
uncertain light, and prays vehemently that the dawn may ripen into day, lay this precept well to heart: "Do the duty which lies nearest thee," which thou knowest to be a duty! Thy second duty will already have become clearer.
Let him who has hold of the devil keep hold of him; he is not likely to catch him a second time in a hurry.
Let him who is reduced to beggary first try every one and then his friend.
Let him who is well off stay where he is.
Let him who knows not how to pray go to sea.
Let him who sleeps too much borrow the pillow
of a debtor.
Let him who would move and convince others be first moved and convinced himself. Let a man but speak forth with genuine earnestness the thought, the emotion, the actual condition of his own heart, and other men, so strangely are we all knit together by the tie of sympathy, must and will give heed to him.
Let him who would write heroic poems make his life a heroic poem.
Let ilka ane soop
Let it be your first care not to be in any man's debt.
Let it not be grievous to thee to humble and
submit thyself to the capricious humours of men with whom thou conversest in this world, but rather ... endure patiently whatever they shall, but should not, do to thee.
Let it not be imagined that the life of a good Christian must necessarily be a life of melancholy and gloominess; for he only resigns some pleasures, to enjoy others infinitely greater.
Let John Bull beware of John Barleycorn.
Let justice guide your feet.
Let knowledge grow from more to more, / But more of reverence in us dwell.
Let man be noble, helpful, and good, for that
alone distinguishes him from every other creature we know.
Let man's own sphere confine his view.
Let May be oot
Let me be cruel, not unnatural; / I will speak daggers to her, but use none. / My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites.
Let me die to the sounds of the delicious music.
Let me have men about me that are fat; /
Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o' nights; / Yond' Cassius has a lean and hungry look; / He thinks too much; such men are dangerous.
Let me have no lying; it becomes none but tradesmen.
Let me keep from vice myself, and pity it in others.
Let me make the ballads of a people, and I care not who makes the laws.
Let me play the fool; / With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come, / And let my liver rather heat with wine / Than my heart cool with mortifying groans.
Let me say amen betimes, lest the devil cross
my prayers.
Let me still take away the harms I fear, / Not fear still to be taken.
Let me tell the adventurous stranger, / In our calmness lies our danger; / Like a river's silent running, / Stillness shows our depth and cunning.
Let me warn you very earnestly against scruples.
Let men know that they are men, created by God, responsible to God, who work in any meanest moment of time what will last through eternity.
Let men laugh when you sacrifice desire to
duty, if they will. You have time and eternity to rejoice in.
Let men see, let them know, a real man, who lives as he was meant to live.
Let never day nor night unhallow'd pass, / But still remember what the Lord hath done.
Let never maiden think, however fair, / She is not finer in new clothes than old.
Let no complaisance, no gentleness of temper, no weak desire of pleasing on your part, no wheedling, coaxing, nor flattery on other people's, make you recede one jot from any point that reason and prudence have bid you pursue.
Let no man be called happy before his death.
Let no man doubt the omnipotence of nature, doubt the majesty of man's soul; let no lonely unfriended son of genius despair. If he have the will, the right will, then the power also has not been denied him.
Let no man measure by a scale of perfection the meagre product of reality.
Let no man think he is loved by any man, when he loves no man.
Let no man trust the first false step of guilt; it hangs upon a precipice, whose steep descent in last perdition ends.
Let no man value at a little price a virtuous woman's counsel.
Let no mean spirit of revenge tempt you to throw off your loyalty to your country, and to prefer a vicious celebrity to obscurity crowned with piety and virtue.
Let no one so conceive of himself as if he were the Messiah the world was praying for.
Let no one think that he can conquer the first impressions of his youth.
Let no one who loves be called altogether unhappy;
even love unreturned has its rainbow.
Let nobility and virtue keep company, for they are nearest of kin.
Let none admire / That riches grow in hell; that soil may best / Deserve the precious bane.
Let none henceforth seek needless cause t' approve / The faith they owe; when earnestly they seek / Such proof, conclude they then begin to fail.
Let none presume / To wear an undeservéd dignity.
Let not him that girdeth on his harness boast
himself as he that putteth it off.
Let not man tempt the gods, or ever desire to pry into what they graciously conceal under a veil of darkness or terror.
Let not mercy and truth forsake thee.
Let not mirth turn to mischief.
Let not my bark in calm abide, / But win her cheerless way against the chafing tide.
Let not one enemy be few, nor a thousand
friends many, in thy sight.
Let not one look of fortune cast you down; / She were not fortune if she did not frown; / Such as do braveliest bear her scorns awhile / Are those on whom at last she most will smile.
Let not plenty make you dainty.
Let not poverty part good company.
Let not the emphasis of hospitality lie in bed and board; but let truth and love and honour and courtesy flow in all thy deeds.
Let not the grass grow on the path of friendship.
Let not the remembrance of thy former trials discourage thee.
Let not the sun go down upon your wrath
Let not thine heart be hasty to utter anything before God: for God is in heaven, and thou upon earth; therefore let thy words be few.
Let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth.
Let not your money become your master.
Let not your mouth swallow you.
Let not your sail be bigger than your boat.
Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory.
Let nothing in excess be done; with this let all comply.
Let observation, with extensive view, / Survey
mankind, from China to Peru; / Remark each anxious toil, each eager strife, / And watch the busy scenes of crowded life.
Let our finger ache, and it endues / Our other healthful members ev'n to that sense / Of pain.
Let pleasure be ever so innocent, the excess is always criminal.
Let present rapture, comfort, ease, / As heaven shall bid them, come and go; / The secret this of rest below.
Let pride go afore, shame will follow after.
Let prideful priests do battle about creeds, /
The Church is mine that does most Christ-like deeds.
Let prudence number o'er each sturdy son, / Who life and wisdom at one race begun.
Let rumours be, when did not rumours fly?
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Let still the woman take / An elder than herself; so wears she to him, / So sways she level in her husband's heart; / For, boy, however we do praise ourselves, / Our fancies are more giddy and unfirm, / More longing, wavering, sooner lost and worn / Than women's are.
Let such teach others who themselves excel, /
And censure freely who have written well.
Let that which is lost be for God.
Let the angry person always have the quarrel to himself.
Let the best horse leap the hedge first.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
Let the dainty rose awhile / Her bashful fragrance
hide; / Rend not her silken veil too soon, / But leave her, in her own soft noon, / To flourish and abide.
Let the dead bury their dead
Let the devil catch you by a hair, and you are his for ever.
Let the devil get into the church, and he will soon be on the altar.
Let the foibles of the great rest in peace.
Let the galled jade wince, our withers are unwrung.
Let the great book of the world be your principal study.
Let the great world spin forever down the ringing grooves of change.
Let the matter be good, and let the manner befit it.
Let the night come before we praise the day.
Let the path be open to talent.
Let the reader have seen before he attempts to oversee.
Let the road be rough and dreary, / And its end far out of sight, / Foot it bravely! strong or weary, / "Trust in God, and do the right."
Let the shoemaker stick to his last, the peasant to his plough, and let the prince understand how to rule.
Let the thing we do be what it will, it is the principle upon which we do it that must recommend it.
Let the tow
Let the world slide, let the world go; / A fig for care, and a fig for woe! / If I can't pay, why, I can owe, / And death makes equal the high and low.
Let the world wag.
Let the young people mind what the old people
say, / And where there is danger keep out of the way.
Let them call it mischief; / When it is past and prosper'd it will be virtue.
Let them obey that know not how to rule.
Let there be thistles, there are grapes; / If old things, there are new; / Ten thousand broken lights and shapes, / Yet glimpses of the true.
Let thine eyes look right on.
Let this be an example for the acquisition of
all knowledge, virtue, and riches. By the fall of drops of water, by degrees, a pot is filled.
Let those have night that love the night.
Let those who believe in immortality enjoy their belief in silence, and give themselves no airs about it.
Let those who hope for brighter shores no more, / Not mourn, but turning inland, bravely seek / What hidden wealth redeems the shapeless shore.
Let thy alms go before, and keep heaven's gate / Open for thee, or both may come too late.
Let thy child's first lesson be obedience, and
the second will be what thou wilt.
Let thy fair wisdom, not thy passion, sway.
Let thy great deeds force fate to change her mind; / He that courts fortune boldly, makes her kind.
Let thy mind still be bent, still plotting where, / And when, and how thy business may be done, / Slackness breeds worms; but the sure traveller, / Though he alights sometimes, still goeth on.
Let thy mind's sweetness have his operation / Upon thy body, clothes, and habitation.
Let thy words be few.
Let us a little permit Nature to take her own way; she better understands her own affairs than we.
Let us approach our friend with an audacious trust in the truth of his heart, in the breadth, impossible to be overturned, of his foundations.
Let us be back'd with God, and with the seas, / Which He hath given for fence impregnable, / And with these helps only defend ourselves; / In them, and in ourselves, our safety lies.
Let us be content in work / To do the thing we can, and not presume / To fret because it's little.
Let us be men with men, and always children
before God.
Let us be poised, and wise, and our own to-day.
Let us be silent, for so are the gods.
Let us beware that our rest become not the rest of stones, which, so long as they are torrent-tossed and thunder-stricken, maintain their majesty; but when the stream is silent and the storm passed, suffer the grass to cover them and the lichen to feed upon them, and are ploughed down into dust.
Let us do the work of men while we bear the form of them.
Let us endeavour to see things as they are,
and then inquire whether we ought to complain.
Let us enjoy the cloven flame whilst it glows on our walls.
Let us fear the worst, but work with faith; the best will always take care of itself.
Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith let us dare to do our duty as we understand it.
Let us have the crisis; we shall either have death or the cure.
Let us know what to love, and we shall know
also what to reject; what to affirm, and we shall know also what to deny; but it is dangerous to begin with denial and fatal to end with it.
Let us learn upon earth those things that can call us to heaven.
Let us leave the question of origins to those who busy themselves with insoluble problems, and have nothing better to do.
Let us make haste to live, since every day to a wise man is a new life.
Let us march intrepidly wherever we are led by the course of human accidents. Where-ever they lead us, on what coasts soever we are thrown by them, we shall not find ourselves absolutely strangers.
Let us not burden our remembrances with /
A heaviness that's gone.
Let us not make imaginary evils when we have so many real ones to encounter.
Let us not strive to rise too high, that we may not fall too low.
Let us not throw away any of our days upon useless resentment, or contend who shall hold out longest in stubborn malignity.
Let us th' important "now" employ, / And live as those who never die.
Let us, then, be up and doing, / With a heart
for every fate; / Still achieving, still pursuing, / Learn to labour and to wait.
Let us, then, be what we are, and speak what we think, and in all things / Keep ourselves loyal to truth and the sacred professions of friendship.
Let us try what esteem and kindness can effect.
Let vain men pursue vanity; leave them to their own methods.
Let wealth and commerce, laws and learning die, / But leave us still our old nobility.
Let wealth shelter and cherish unprotected merit, and the gratitude and celebrity of that merit will richly repay it.
Let whatever you are and whatever you do, grow out of a firm root of truth and a strong soil of reality.
Let Whig and Tory stir their blood; / There must be stormy weather; / But for some true result of good, / All parties work together.
Let woman learn betimes to serve according
to her destination, for only by serving will she at last learn to rule, and attain the influence that belongs to her in the household.
Let women spin, not preach.
Let your daily wisdom of life be in making a good use of the opportunities given you.
Let your enemies be disarmed by the gentleness of your manner, but let them feel, at the same time, the steadiness of your just resentment.
Let your literary compositions be kept from the public eye for nine years at least.
Let your pen fail, begin to trifle with blotting-paper,
look at the ceiling, bite your nails, and otherwise dally with your purpose, and you waste your time, scatter your thoughts, and repress the nervous energy necessary for your task.
Let your purse be your master.
Let your reason with your choler question.... To climb steep hills / Requires slow pace at first.
Let your rule in reference to your social sentiments be simply this; pray for the bad, pity the weak, enjoy the good, and reverence both the great and the small, as playing each his part aptly in the divine symphony of the universe.
Let your speech be alway with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how to answer every man.
Let your trouble tarry till its own day comes.
Let's live with that small pittance which we have; / Who covets more is evermore a slave.
Let's not unman each other--part at once; / All farewells should be sudden when for ever, / Else they make an eternity of moments, / And clog the last sad sands of life with tears.
Let's take the instant by the forward top; / For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees / Th' inaudible and noiseless foot of time / Steals ere we can effect them.
Let's teach ourselves that honourable stop, not to out-sport discretion.
Letters may be always made out of the books
of the morning or talk of the evening.
Letters of mere compliment, congratulation, or affected condolence, which have cost the authors most labour in composing, never fail of being the most disagreeable and insipid to the readers.
Letters that are warmly sealed are often coldly opened.
Letters without virtue are like pearls in a dunghill.
Letting down buckets into empty wells, and growing old with drawing nothing up.
Lettres de cachet
Leuk twice or ye loup ance
Leve æs alienum debitorem facit, grave inimicum
Leve fit quod bene fertur onus
Leve incommodum tolerandum est
Leve
Level roads run out from music to every side.
Leves homines futuri sunt improvidi
Levia perpessi sumus, / Si flenda patimur
Leviores sunt injuriæ, quæ repentino aliquo motu accidunt, quam eæ quæ meditate præparata inferuntur
Levis est dolor qui capere consilium potest
Levis sit tibi terra
Levity is a prettiness in a child, a disgraceful defect in men, and a monstrous folly in old age.
Levity is often less foolish, and gravity less wise, than each of them appears.
Levity of behaviour is the bane of all that is good and virtuous.
Levius fit patientia / Quicquid corrigere est
nefas
Levius solet timere qui propius timet
Lex aliquando sequitur æquitatem
Lex citius tolerare vult privatum damnum quam publicum malum
Lex neminem cogit ad impossibilia
Lex non scripta
Lex prospicit non respicit
Lex scripta
Lex talionis
Lex terræ
Lex universa est quæ jubet nasci et mori
Liars act like the salt-miners; they undermine the truth, but leave just so much standing as is necessary to support the edifice.
Liars are always ready to take oath.
Liars are the cause of all the sins and crimes in the world.
Liars ought to have good memories.
Libenter homines id, quod volunt, credunt
Libera chiesa in libero stato
Libera Fortunæ mors est: capit omnia tellus / Quæ genuit
Libera me ab homine malo, a meipso
Libera te metu mortis
Liberality consists less in giving profusely than in giving judiciously.
Liberality is not giving largely but wisely.
Libertas
Libertas est potestas faciendi id quod jure licet
Libertas in legibus
Libertas, quæ sera, tamen respexit inertem
Libertas sub rege pio
Libertas ultima mundi / Quo steterit ferienda loco
Liberté toute entière
Liberty, and not theology, is the enthusiasm of the nineteenth century. The very men who would once have been conspicuous saints are now conspicuous revolutionists, for while their heroism and disinterestedness are their own, the direction which these qualities take is determined by the pressure of the age.
Liberty comes with Christianity, because Christianity develops and strengthens the mass of men.
Liberty exists in proportion to wholesome
restraint.
Liberty has no actual rights which are not grafted upon justice.
Liberty has no crueller enemy than license.
Liberty is a principle; its community is its security; exclusiveness is its doom.
Liberty is a slow fruit. It is never cheap; it is made difficult because freedom is the accomplishment and perfectness of man.
Liberty is an old fact; it has had its heroes
and its martyrs in almost every age.
Liberty is God's gift; liberties are the devil's.
Liberty is not idleness; it is an unconstrained use of time. To be free is not to be doing nothing; it is to be one's own master as to what one ought to do or not to do.
Liberty is of more value than any gifts; and to receive gifts is to lose it. Be assured that men most commonly seek to oblige thee only that they may engage thee to serve them.
Liberty is one of the most precious gifts that Heaven has bestowed on man, and captivity is the greatest evil that can befall him.
Liberty is quite as much a moral as a political
growth, the result of free individual action, energy, and independence.
Liberty is the right of doing whatever the laws permit.
Liberty is to the collective body what health is to every individual body. Without health no pleasure can be tasted by man; without liberty no happiness can be enjoyed by society.
Liberty is to the lowest rank of every nation little more than the choice of working or starving.
Liberty may be endangered by the abuse of liberty as well as by the abuse of power.
Liberty must be a mighty thing, for by it
God punishes and rewards nations.
Liberty must be limited in order to be possessed.
Liberty of thinking and expressing our thoughts is always fatal to priestly power, and to those pious frauds on which it is commonly founded.
Liberty raises us to the gods; holiness prostrates us on the ground.
Liberty, when it begins to take root, is a plant of rapid growth.
Liberty will not descend to a people; a people
must raise themselves to liberty; it is a blessing that must be earned before it can be enjoyed.
Liberty, with all its drawbacks, is everywhere vastly more attractive to a noble soul than good social order without it, than society like a flock of sheep, or a machine working like a watch. This mechanism makes of man only a product; liberty makes him the citizen of a better world.
Liberum arbitrium
Libidinosa et intemperans adolescentia effœtum corpus tradit senectuti
Libido effrenata effrenatam appetentiam efficit
Libito fè licito
Libra justa justitiam servat
Libraries are as the shrines where all the relics of saints full of true virtue, and that without delusion and imposture, are preserved and reposed.
Libraries are the wardrobes of literature, whence men, properly informed, might bring forth something for ornament, much for curiosity, and more for use.
License they mean when they cry liberty.
Liceat concedere veris
Licet superbus ambules pecunia, / Fortuna non mutat genus
Licht und Geist, jenes im Phyischen, dieses im Sittlichen herrschend, sind die höchsten denkbaren untheilbaren Energien
Licuit, semperque licebit / Parcere personis, dicere de vitiis
Lie not in the mire, and say, "God help!"
Lie not, neither to thyself, nor man, nor God. Let mouth and heart be one; beat and speak together, and make both felt in action. It is for cowards to lie.
Liebe bleibt die goldne Leiter / Darauf das
Herz zum Himmel steigt
Liebe ist die ältest-neuste / Einz'ge Weltbegebenheit
Liebe kann nicht untergehen; / Was verwest, muss auferstehen
Liebe kann viel, Geld kann alles
Liebe kennt der allein, der ohne Hoffnung liebt
Liebe ohne Gegenliebe ist wie eine Frage
ohne Antwort
Liebe schwärmet auf allen Wegen; / Treue wohnt für sich allein; / Liebe kommt euch rasch entgegen; / Aufgesucht will Treue sein
Liebe ward der Welt von Gott verliehen, / Um zu Gott die Seele zu erziehen
Lieber Neid denn Mitleid
Lies are like nitro-glycerine--the best of judges can't tell where they are going to burst and scatter confusion.
Lies are sufficient to breed opinion, and opinion
brings on substance.
Lies are the ghosts of truths, the masks of faces.
Lies have short legs.
Lies hunt in packs.
Lies may be acted as well as spoken.
Lies, mere show and sham, and hollow superficiality
of all kinds, which is at the best a painted lie, avoid.
Lies need a great deal of killing.
Lies that are half true are the worst of lies.
Life abounds in cares, in thorns, and woes; many tears flow visibly, although many more are unseen.
Life admits not of delays.
Life alone can rekindle life.
Life, as we call it, is nothing but the edge of the boundless ocean of existence where it comes upon soundings.
Life at the greatest and best is but a froward child, that must be humoured and coaxed a little till it falls asleep, and then all the care is over.
Life belongs to the living, and he who lives must be prepared for vicissitudes.
Life cannot subsist in society but by reciprocal concessions.
Life every man holds dear; but the brave
man / Holds honour far more precious dear than life.
Life everywhere will swallow a man, unless he rise and try vigorously to swallow it.
Life expresses. A statue has no tongue, and needs none.
Life, full life, / Full-flowered, full-fruited, reared from homely earth, / Rooted in duty, ... this is the prize / I hold most dear, more precious than the fruit / Of knowledge or of love.
Life has been compared to a race, but the allusion still improves, by observing that the most swift are ever the least manageable, the most apt to stray from the course. Great abilities have always been less serviceable to the possessors than moderate ones.
Life has no memory.
Life has no pleasure nobler than that of friendship.
Life, however short, is made shorter by waste of time; and its progress towards happiness, though naturally slow, is made still slower by unnecessary labour.
Life I leave, as I would leave an inn, rather than a home; nature having given it us more as a sort of hostelry to stop at, than as an abiding dwelling-place.
Life in itself is neither good nor evil, but the scene of good or evil, as you make it; and if you have lived one day, you have lived all days.
Life is a campaign, not a battle, and has
its defeats as well as its victories.
Life is a casket, not precious in itself, but valuable in proportion to what fortune, or industry, or virtue has placed within it.
Life is a comedy to him who thinks, and a tragedy to him who feels.
Life is a crucible, into which we are thrown and tried. The actual weight and value of a man are expressed in the spiritual substance of the man; all else is dross.
Life is a disease of the spirit; a working incited by passion. Rest is peculiar to the spirit.
Life is a disease
death the radical cure.
Life is a dream and death an awakening.
Life is a fairy scene: almost all that deserves the name of enjoyment or pleasure is only a charming delusion; and in comes repining age, in all the gravity of hoary wisdom, and wretchedly chases away the bewitching phantom.
Life is a fortress which neither you nor I know anything about. Why throw obstacles in the way of its defence? Its own means are superior to all the apparatus of your laboratories.
Life is a fragment, a moment between two eternities, influenced by all that has preceded, and to influence all that follows.
Life is a jest, and all things show it; / I thought so once, but now I know it.
Life is a kind of sleep; old men sleep longest, nor begin to wake until they are to die.
Life is a little gleam of time between two
eternities.
Life is a long lesson in humility.
Life is a moment between two eternities.
Life is a plant that grows out of death.
Life is a progress from want to want, not from enjoyment to enjoyment.
Life is a quarantine for Paradise.
Life is a rich strain of music suggesting a realm too fair to be.
Life is a scale of degrees. Between rank and rank of our great men are wide intervals.
Life is a search after power; and this is an element with which the world is so saturated--there is no chink or crevice in which it is not lodged--that no honest seeking goes unrewarded.
Life is a series of surprises, and would not be worth taking or keeping if it were not.
Life is a short day, but it is a working day.
Life is a shuttle.
Life is a sincerity. In lucid intervals we say, "Let there be an entrance opened for me into realities; I have worn the fool's cap too long."
Life is a sleep, love is a dream, and you have lived if you have loved.
Life is a stream upon which drift flowers in spring and blocks of ice in winter.
Life is a succession of lessons which must be
lived to be understood. All is riddle, and the key to a riddle is another riddle.
Life is a voyage.
Life is a warfare.
Life is a wrestle with the devil, and only the frivolous think to throw him without taking off their coats.
Life is act, and not to do is death.
Life is all a variorum; / We regard not how
it goes; / Let them cant about decorum / Who have characters to lose. / A fig for those by law protected! / Liberty's a glorious feast; / Courts for cowards were erected, / Churches built to please the priest.
Life is an earnest business, and no man was ever made great or good by a diet of broad grins.
Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale, / Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man.
Life is as the current spark on the miner's wheel of flints; while it spinneth there is light; stop it, all is darkness.
Life is burdensome to us chiefly from the abuse of it.
Life is but a tissue of habits.
Life is but another name for action; and he who is without opportunity exists, but does not live.
Life is but thought; so think I will that youth and I are housemates still.
Life is freedom--life in the direct ratio of its amount.... The smallest candle fills a mile with its rays, and the pupillæ of a man run out to every star.
Life is girt all round with a zodiac of sciences, the contributions of men who have perished to add their point of light to our sky.... These road-makers on every hand enrich us. We must extend the area of life and multiply our relations. We are as much gainers by finding a property in the old earth as by acquiring a new planet.
Life is given us not to enjoy, but to overcome.
Life is half spent before we know what life is.
Life is immeasurably heightened by the solemnity of death.
Life is kindled only by life.
Life is like wine; he who would drink it pure must not drain it to the dregs.
Life is made up, not of great sacrifices or
duties, but of little things, in which smiles and kindness, and small obligations given habitually, are what win the heart and secure comfort.
Life is made up, not of knowledge only, but of love also.... The hues of sunset make life great; so the affections make some little web of cottage and fireside populous, important.
Life is movement.
Life is no merrymaking.
Life is not as idle ore, / But iron dug from central gloom, / And heated hot with burning fears, / And dipt in baths of hissing tears, / And battered with the shocks of doom / To shape and use.
Life is not intellectual or critical, but sturdy.
Its chief good is for well-mixed people, who can enjoy what they find without question.
Life is not long, and too much of it must not pass in idle deliberation how it shall be spent.
Life is not long enough for art, not long enough for friendship.
Life is not so short but there is always time enough for courtesy.
Life is not the supreme good; but of all earthly ills the chief is guilt.
Life is not victory, but battle.
Life is poor when its old faiths are gone, / Poorest when man can trust himself alone.
Life is probation, and this earth no goal, / But starting-point of man.
Life is rather a state of embryo, a preparation for life; a man is not completely born till he has passed through death.
Life is ravelled almost ere we wot, / And with our vexing / To disentangle it, we make the knot / But more perplexing, / Embittering our lot.
Life is real, life is earnest.
Life is sacred; but there is something more
sacred still: woe to him who does not know that withal.
Life is so complicated a game, that the devices of skill are liable to be defeated at every turn by air-blown chances, incalculable as the descent of thistle-down.
Life is so healthful that it even finds nourishment in death.
Life is that which holds matter together.
Life is the art of being well deceived.
Life is the best thing we can possibly make of
it.
Life is the jailer, death the angel sent to draw the unwilling bolts and set us free.
Life is the jailer of the soul in this filthy prison, and its only deliverer is death. What we call life is a journey to death, and what we call death is a passport to life.
Life is the transmigration of a soul / Through various bodies, various states of being; / New manners, passions, new pursuits in each; / In nothing, save in consciousness, the same.
Life is the triumph of our mouldering clay; death, of the spirit infinite, divine!
Life is to be considered happy, not in warding
off evil, but in the acquisition of good: and this we should seek for by employment of some kind or by reflection.
Life is too much for most. So much of age, so little of youth; living, for the most part, in the moment, and dating existence by the memory of its burdens.
Life is too short to waste / In critic peep or cynic bark, / Quarrel or reprimand; / 'Twill soon be dark.
Life itself is a bubble and a scepticism, and a sleep within a sleep.
Life just the stuff / To try the soul's strength on, educe the man.
Life lies before us as a huge quarry before
the architect; and he deserves not the name of architect except when, out of this fortuitous mass, he can combine, with the greatest economy, fitness and durability, some form the pattern of which originated in his own soul.
Life lies most open in a closed eye.
Life, like a dome of many coloured glass, / Stains the white radiance of eternity.
Life, like some cities, is full of blind alleys, leading nowhere; the great art is to keep out of them.
Life, like the water of the seas, freshens only when it ascends towards heaven.
Life may as properly be called an art as any
other, and the great incidents in it are no more to be considered as mere accidents than the severest members of a fine statue or a noble poem.
Life must be lived on a higher plane. We must go up to a higher platform, to which we are always invited to ascend; there the whole aspect of things changes.
Life only avails, not the having lived.
Life outweighs all things, if love lies within it.
Life passes through us; we do not possess it.
Life protracted is protracted woe, / Time
hovers o'er, impatient to destroy, / And shuts up all the passages of joy.
Life sues the young like a new acquaintance.... To us, who are declined in years, life appears like an old friend.
Life, to be worthy of a rational being, must be always in progression: we must always purpose to do more or better than in time past.
Life, upon the whole, is much more pleasurable than painful, otherwise we should not feel pain so impatiently when it comes.
Life was intended to be so adjusted that the body should be the servant of the soul, and always subordinate to the soul.
Life was never a May-game for men; not play
at all, but hard work, that makes the sinews sore and the heart sore.
Life was spread as a banquet for pure, noble, unperverted natures, and may be such to them, ought to be such to them.
Life wastes itself while we are preparing to live.
Life, whether in this world or any other, is the sum of our attainment, our experience, our character. In what other world shall we be more surely than we are here?
Life with all it yields of joy and woe, / And hope and fear, / Is just our chance o' the prize of learning love, / How love might be, hath been indeed, and is.
Life without a freend is death wi' a witness.
Life without laughing is a dreary blank.
Life would be too smooth if it had no rubs in it.
Life's a reckoning we cannot make twice over.
Life's a tragedy.
Life's a tumble-about thing of ups and downs.
Life's but a day at most.
Life's but a means unto an end; that end / Beginning, mean, and end to all things--God.
Life's but a walking shadow; a poor player, / That struts and frets his hour upon the stage, / And then is heard no more! It is a tale / Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, / Signifying nothing.
Life's ebbing stream on either side / Shows at each turn some mould'ring hope or joy, / The man seems following still the funeral of the boy.
Life's enchanted cup but sparkles near the brim.
Life's life ony gate
Life's no resting, but a moving; / Let thy life be deed on deed.
Light another's candle, but don't put out your
own.
Light boats sail swift, though greater hulks draw deep.
Light burdens carried far grow heavy.
Light cares
Light flashes in the gloomiest sky, / And music in the dullest plain.
Light gains make heavy purses, because they
come thick, whereas the great come but now and then.
Light is, as it were, a divine humidity.
Light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than the light, because their deeds were evil.
Light is coming into the world; men love not darkness; they do love light.
Light is, in reality, more awful than darkness; modesty more majestic than strength; and there is truer sublimity in the sweet joy of a child, or the sweet virtue of a maiden, than in the strength of Antæus or the thunder-clouds of Ætna.
Light is light, though the blind man doesn't
see it.
Light is no less favourable to merit than unfavourable to imposture.
Light is, perhaps, the most wonderful of all visible things.
Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart.
Light is the burden love lays on; / Content and love brings peace and joy, / What mair hae queens upon a throne?
Light is the symbol of truth.
Light not your candle at both ends.
Light, or, failing that, lightning--the world can take its choice.
Light seeking light doth light of light beguile.
Light suppers mak' lang life.
Light that a man receiveth by counsel from
another is drier and purer than that which cometh from his own understanding and judgment, which is ever in his affections and customs.
Light that makes things seen makes some things invisible.
Light visits the hearts, as it does the eyes, of all living.
Light without life is a candle in a tomb; / Life without love is a garden without bloom.
Lightly come, lightly go.
Lightning and thunder (heaven's artillery) /
As harbingers before th' Almighty fly: / Those but proclaim His style, and disappear; / The stiller sounds succeed, and God is there.
Like a great poet, Nature produces the greatest results with the simplest means. There are simply a sun, flowers, water, and love.
Like a large heart overflowing with an impotent and vague love, the universe is ceaselessly in the agony of transformation.
Like a lusty winter, frosty but kindly.
Like a man do all things, not sneakingly.
Like a morning dream, life becomes more and
more bright the longer we live, and the reason of everything appears more clear.
Like a tailor's needle, say, "I go through."
Like an old woman at her hearth, we warm our hands at our sorrows and drop in faggots, and each thinks his own fire a sun in presence of which all other fires should go out.
Like angels' visits, few and far between.
Like angels' visits, short and bright; / Mortality's too weak to bear them long.
Like author, like book.
Like blude, like gude, like age, mak' the happy marriage.
Like coalesces in this world with unlike. The strong and the weak, the contemplative and the active, bind themselves together.
Like cures like.
Like dogs in a wheel, birds in a cage, or squirrels in a chain, ambitious men still climb and climb, with great labour and incessant anxiety, but never reach the top.
Like doth quit like, and measure still for
measure.
Like draws to like, the world over.
Like everything else in nature, music is a becoming, and it becomes its full self when its sounds and laws are used by intelligent man for the production of harmony, and so made the vehicle of emotion and thought.
Like father, like son.
Like leaves on trees the race of man is found, / Now green in youth, now withering on the ground; / Another race the following spring supplies; / They fall successive, and successive rise.
Like master, like man.
Like mighty rivers, with resistless force, / The passions rage, obstructed in their course, / Swell to new heights, forbidden paths explore, / And drown those virtues which they fed before.
Like mistress, like maid.
Like mother, like daughter.
Like Niobe, all tears.
Like other plants, virtue will not grow unless
its root be hidden, buried from the eye of the sun.
Like our shadows / Our wishes lengthen as our sun declines.
Like patience on a monument, / Smiling at grief.
Like priest, like people.
Like prince, like people.
Like Scotsmen, aye wise ahint the hand
Like talks best with like, laughs best with like, works best with like, and enjoys best with like; and it cannot help it.
Like the air, the water, and everything else in
the world, the heart too rises the higher the warmer it becomes.
Like the dog in the manger, he will neither eat himself nor let the horse eat.
Like the hand which ends a dream, / Death, with the might of his sunbeam, / Touches the flesh and the soul awakes.
Like two single gentlemen rolled into one.
Likely tumbles in the fire, / When unlikely rises higher.
Limæ labor et mora
Limit your wants by your wealth.
Limitations refine as the soul purifies, but the ring of necessity is always perched at the top.
Limiting of one's life always conduces to happiness.
Lingua mali loquax malæ mentis est indicium
Lingua mali pars pessima servi
Lingua melior, sed frigida bello / Dextera
Linguæ centum sunt, oraque centum, / Ferrea vox
Linguam compescere, virtus non minima est
Linquenda tellus, et domus, et placens / Uxor, neque harum, quas colis, arborum, / Te, præter invisas cupressos, / Ulla brevem dominum sequetur
Lions are not frightened by cats.
Lions' skins are not to be had cheap.
Lippen to
Lips become compressed and drawn with anxious thought, and eyes the brightest are quenched of their fires by many tears.
Lips never err when wisdom keeps the door.
Lis litem generat
List geht über Gewalt-
List his discourse of war, and you shall hear / A fearful battle render'd you in music; / Turn him to any cause of policy, / The Gordian Knot of it he will unloose, / Familiar as his garter.
Listen at a hole, and ye'll hear news o' yoursel'.
Listeners never hear good of themselves.
Lite pendente
Litem parit lis, noxa item noxam parit
Litera canina
Litera occidit, spiritus autem vivificat
Litera scripta manet, verbum ut inane perit
Literæ Bellerophontis
Literæ humaniores
Literary history is the great morgue where all seek the dead ones whom they love, and to whom they are related.
Literary men are ... a perpetual priesthood.
Literature, as a field for glory, is an arena where a tomb may be more easily found than laurels; as a means of support, it is the very chance of chances.
Literature consists of all the books--and they
are not many--where moral truth and human passion are touched with a certain largeness, sanity, and attraction of form.
Literature draws its sap from the deep soil of human nature's common and everlasting sympathies.
Literature happens to be the only occupation in which wages are not given in proportion to the goodness of the work done.
Literature has her quacks no less than medicine: those who have erudition without genius, and those who have volubility without depth.
Literature has other aims than that of harmlessly amusing indolent, languid men.
Literature is a fragment of a fragment, and
of this but little is extant.
Literature is a great staff, but a sorry crutch.
Literature is fast becoming all in all to us--our church, our senate, our whole social constitution.
Literature is representative of intellect, which is progressive; government is representative of order, which is stationary.
Literature is so common a luxury that the age has grown fastidious.
Literature is the thought of thinking souls.
Literature, like virtue, is its own reward.
Literature positively has other aims than this of amusing from hour to hour; nay, perhaps this, glorious as it may be, is not its highest or true aim.
Literature, taken in all its bearings, forms the grand line of demarcation between the human and the animal kingdoms.
Literature, when noble, is not easy; only when ignoble. It too is a quarrel and internecine duel with the whole world of darkness that lies without one and within one;--rather a hard fight at times.
Litteræ non erubescunt
Little and often fills the purse.
Little bantams are great at crowing.
Little boats must keep near shore.
Little bodies have great souls.
Little by little the little bird builds its nest.
Little children, little sorrows; big children, great sorrows.
Little chips light great fires.
Little deeds of kindness, little words of love, / Make our earth an Eden like the heaven above.
Little dew-drops of celestial melody.
Little do men perceive what solitude is, and how far it extendeth; for a crowd is not company, and faces are but a gallery of pictures, and talk but a tinkling cymbal, where there is no love.
Little drops of rain pierce the hard marble.
Little drops of water, little grains of sand, / Make the mighty ocean and the pleasant land. / Thus the little minutes, humble though they be, / Make the mighty ages of eternity.
Little enemies and little wounds must not be despised.
Little fishes should not spout like whales.
Little flower--if I could understand / What you are, root and all, and all in all, / I should know what God and man is.
Little folks like to talk about great folks.
Little gear, less care.
Little griefs are loud, great sorrows are silent.
Little is done when every man is master.
Little joys refresh us constantly, like house-bread, and never bring disgust; and great ones, like sugar-bread, briefly, and then with satiety.
Little kingdom is great household, and great household little kingdom.
Little-minded people's thoughts move in such small circles that five minutes' conversation gives you an arc long enough to determine their whole curve.
Little minds are tamed and subdued by misfortune, but great minds rise above it.
Little minds are too much wounded by little
things; great minds see all, and are not even hurt.
Little minds, like weak liquors, are soonest soured.
Little odds between a feast and a fu' wame
Little of this great world can I speak, / More than pertains to feats of broil and battle; / And, therefore, little shall I grace my cause / In speaking for myself. Yet by your gracious patience, / I will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver / Of my whole course of love.
Little ones are taught to be proud of their clothes before they can put them on.
Little opportunities should be improved.
Little pigeons can carry great messages.
Little pigs eat great potatoes.
Little pitchers have long ears
Little pot, / Don't get hot / On the spot.
Little pots soon boil over.
Little souls on little shifts rely.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Little thieves have iron chains and great thieves gold ones.
Little things blame not: Grace may on them wait. / Cupid is little; but his godhead's great.
Little things please little minds.
Little troubles are great to little people.
Little waves with their soft white hands efface the footprints in the sands.
Little wealth, little sorrow.
Little wit in the head makes much work for the feet.
Little wrongs done to others are great wrongs
done to ourselves.
Littore quot conchæ, tot sunt in amore dolores
Littus ama, altum alii teneant
Live and learn; and indeed it takes a great deal of living to get a little deal of learning.
Live and let live.
Live as long as you may, the first twenty
years are the longest half of your life.
Live for to-day! to-morrow's light, / Tomorrow's cares shall bring to sight; / Go sleep, like closing flowers, at night, / And Heaven thy morn will bless.
Live in to-day, but not for to-day.
Live, live to-day; to-morrow never yet / On any human being rose or set.
Live not for yourself alone.
Live not to eat, but eat to live.
Live on, brave lives, chained to the narrow round / Of Duty; live, expend yourselves, and make / The orb of Being wheel onward steadfastly / Upon its path--the Lord of Life alone / Knows to what goal of Good; work on, live on.
Live on what you have; live if you can on less; do not borrow either for vanity or pleasure--the vanity will end in shame, and the pleasure in regret.
Live only a moment at a time.
Live thou! and of the grain and husk, the grape, / And ivy berry, choose; and still depart / From death to death thro' life and life, and find / Nearer and ever nearer Him, who wrought / Not Matter, nor the finite-infinite, / But this main miracle, that thou art thou, / With power on thine own act and on the world.
Live to learn and learn to live.
Live upon trust, / And pay double you must.
Live virtuously, and you cannot die too soon nor live too long.
Live we how we can, yet die we must.
Live with a singer if you would learn to sing.
Live with thy century, but be not its creature; produce for thy contemporaries, however, what they need, not what they applaud.
Live with your friend as if he might become your enemy.
Lively feeling of situations, and power to express them, make the poet.
Lives of great men all remind us, / We can
make our lives sublime; / And departing leave behind us / Footprints on the sands of time.
Living religion grows not by the doctrines, but by the narratives of the Bible.
Living well is the best revenge.
Lo ageno siempre pia por su dueño
Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world.
Lo que hace el loco á la derreria, hace el sabio
á la primeria
Lo que no acaece en un año, acaece en un rato
Lo! the poor Indian, whose untutor'd mind / Sees God in clouds, or hears Him in the wind; / His soul proud science never taught to stray / Far as the solar walk or milky way; / Yet simple nature to his hope has given, / Behind the cloud-topt hills, a humbler heaven.
Loan oft loses both itself and friend.
Loans and debts make worries and frets.
Loans should come laughing home.
Loathsome canker lives in sweetest bud.
Loaves put awry in the oven come out awry.
Loci communes
Lock the stable before you lose the steed.
Locking the stable door when the steed is
stolen.
Loco citato
Locum tenens
Locus classicus
Locus est et pluribus umbris
Locus in quo
Locus penitentiæ
Locus sigili
Locus standi
Lofty mountains are full of springs; great hearts are full of tears.
Logic works; metaphysic contemplates.
Loin de la cour, loin du souci
Long customs are not easily broken; he that attempts to change the course of his own life very often labours in vain.
Long experience made him sage.
Long lent is not given.
Long talk makes short work.
Long talking begets short hearing, for people go away.
Longa est injuria, longæ / Ambages
Longa mora est, quantum noxæ sit ubique repertum / Enumerare: minor fuit ipsa infamia vero
Longe aberrat scopo
Longe absit
Longe mea discrepat istis / Et vox et ratio
Longo sed proximus intervallo
Longum iter est per præcepta, breve et efficax per exempla
Look above you, and then look about you.
Look, as I blow this feather from my face, / And
as the air blows it to me again / ... Commanded always by the greater gust; / Such is the lightness of you common men.
Look at home, father priest, mother priest; your church is a hundredfold heavier responsibility than mine can be. Your priesthood is from God's own hands.
Look at paintings and fightings from a distance.
Look at the bright side of a failure as well as the dark.
Look at your own corn in May, / And you'll come weeping away.
Look before you leap.
Look before you, or you'll have to look behind you.
Look for squalls, but don't make them.
Look how the floor of heaven / Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold; / There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st / But in his motion like an angel sings, / Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubims.
Look how we can, or sad or merrily, / Interpretation will misquote our looks.
Look in the glass when you with anger glow, /
And you'll confess you scarce yourself would know.
Look in thy heart and write.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
Look not mournfully into the past--it comes not back again; wisely improve the present--it is thine; go forth to meet the shadowy future without fear and with a manly heart.
Look not on pleasures as they come, but go. / Defer not the least virtue; life's poor span / Make not an ell by trifling in thy woe. / If thou do ill, the joy fades, not the pains; / If well, the pain doth fade, the joy remains.
Look not to what is wanting in any one; consider that rather which still remains to him.
Look out for a people entirely destitute of religion. If you find them at all, be assured that they are but few degrees removed from brutes.
Look round the habitable world, how few / Know their own good, or, knowing it, pursue.
Look, the morn, in russet mantle clad, / Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastern hill.
Look through a keyhole, and your eye will be
sore.
Look to the players; ... / They are the abstract and brief chroniclers of the times.
Look to thy mouth; diseases enter there.
Look to thyself; reach not beyond humanity.
Look unto those they call unfortunate; / And, closer viewed, you'll find they are unwise.
Look upon every day, O youth, as the whole
of life, not merely as a section, and enjoy the present without wishing, through haste, to spring on to another.
Look within. Within is the fountain of good, and it will ever bubble up, if thou wilt ever dig.
Lookers-on see more than the players.
Looking round on the noisy inanity of the world, words with little meaning, actions with little worth, one loves to reflect on the great empire of silence. The noble silent men, scattered here and there each in his department, silently thinking, silently working; whom no morning newspaper makes mention of.
Looking where others looked, and conversing with the same things, we catch the charm which lured them.
Looks kill love, and love by looks reviveth.
Loop'd and window'd raggedness.
Loquacity storms the ear, but modesty takes the heart.
Loquendum ut vulgus, sentiendum ut docti
Lord, help me through this warld o' care, / I'm weary sick o't late and air; / Not but I hae a richer share / Than mony ithers; / But why should ae man better fare, / And a' men brithers?
Lord, keep my memory green!
Lord of himself, that heritage of woe.
Lord of himself, though not of lands; having nothing yet hath all.
Lord of the lion heart and eagle eye, / Thy steps I follow with my bosom bare, / Nor heed the storm that howls along the sky.
Lord of thy presence and no land beside.
Lord, we know what we are, but know not
what we may be.
Lorsqu'une pensée est trop faible pour porter une expression simple, c'est la marque pour la rejeter
Lose the habit of hard labour with its manliness, and then, / Comes the wreck of all you hope for in the wreck of noble men.
Lose thy fun rather than thy friend.
Losing the bundles gathering the wisps.
Losses are comparative, only imagination
makes them of any moment.
Lost time is never found again.
Lotis manibus
Loud clamour is always more or less insane.
Loud laughter is the mirth of the mob, who are only pleased with silly things; for true wit or good sense never excited a laugh since the creation of the world.
Loudness is a foe to melody.
Louer les princes des vertus qu'ils n'ont pas, c'est leur dire impunément des injures
Louis ne sut qu'aimer, pardonner et mourir; / Il aurait su régner s'il avait su punir
Love abounds in honey and poison.
Love accomplishes all things.
Love all, trust a few, / Do wrong to none; be
able for thine enemy / Rather in power than use; and keep thy friend / Under thy own life's key; be checked for silence, / But never tax'd for speech.
Love and death are the two great hinges on which all human sympathies turn.
Love and friendship exclude each other.
Love and gratitude are seldom found in the same breast without impairing each other ... we cannot command both together.
Love and light winna hide.
Love and lordship like not fellowship.
Love and poverty are hard to hide.
Love and pride stock Bedlam.
Love and religion are both stronger than friendship.
Love and scandal are the best sweeteners of tea.
Love and the Soul, working together, might
go on producing Venuses without end, each different, and all beautiful; but divorced and separated, they may continue producing indeed, yet no longer any being, or even thing, truly godlike.
Love and trust are the only mother-milk of any man's soul.
Love, and you shall be loved. All love is mathematically just, as much as the two sides of an algebraic equation.
Love asks faith, and faith asks firmness.
Love at two-and-twenty is a terribly intoxicating draft.
Love betters what is best, / Even here below, but more in heaven above.
Love breaks in with lightning flash: friendship comes like dawning moonlight. Love will obtain and possess; friendship makes sacrifices but asks nothing.
Love can do much, but duty still more.
Love can hope where reason would despair.
Love can neither be bought nor sold; its only price is love.
Love cannot clasp all it yearns for in its bosom, without first suffering for it.
Love concedes in a moment what we can hardly attain by effort after years of toil.
Love converts the hut into a palace of gold.
Love delights in paradoxes. Saddest when
it has most reason to be gay, sighs are the signs of its deepest joy, and silence the expression of its yearning tenderness.
Love delights to bring her best, / And where love is, that offering evermore is blest.
Love dies by satiety, and forgetfulness inters it.
Love divine, all love excelling, / Joy of heaven to earth come down.
Love does much, but money does more.
Love ends with hope: the sinking statesman's
door / Pours in the morning worshipper no more.
Love ever flows downward.
Love, free as air, at sight of human ties, / Spreads his light wings, and in a moment flies.
Love, friendship, charity are subjects all / To envious and calumniating time.
Love furthers knowledge.
Love gives itself, and is not bought.
Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from their books; / But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.
Love has made its best interpreter a sigh.
Love has no age, as it is always renewing itself.
Love has the tendency of pressing together all the lights, all the rays emitted from the beloved object, by the burning-glass of fantasy, into one focus, and making of them one radiant sun without spots.
Love hath a large mantle.
Love hides ugliness.
Love in the heart is better than honey in the mouth.
Love is a bottomless pit; it is a cormorant--a harpy that devours everything.
Love is a boy by poets spoiled.
Love is a debt which inclination always pays,
obligation never.
Love is a familiar; love is a devil: there is no evil angel but love. Yet was Samson so tempted, and he had an excellent strength; yet was Solomon so seduced, and he had a very good wit.
Love is a personal debt.
Love is a reality which is born in the fairy region of romance.
Love is a secondary passion in those who love most, a primary in those who love least. He who is inspired by it in a high degree is inspired by honour in a higher; it never reaches its plenitude of growth and perfection but in the most exalted minds.
Love is a secret no man knows / Till it within
his bosom glows.
Love is a sleep; love is a dream; and you have lived if you have loved.
Love is a smoke made with the fume of sighs; / Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes; / Being vex'd, a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears: / What is it else? A madness most discreet, / A choking gall, and a preserving sweet.
Love is a spirit all compact of fire; / Not gross to sink, but light and will aspire.
Love is a superstition that doth fear the idol which itself hath made.
Love is a sweet idolatry, enslaving all the soul.
Love is an exotic of the most delicate constitution.
Love is an image of God, and not a lifeless image; not one painted on paper, but the living essence of the divine nature, which beams full of all goodness.
Love is as warm among cottars as courtiers.
Love is as warm in fustian as in velvet.
Love is blind, and lovers cannot see the pretty
follies that themselves commit.
Love is blind, and the figure of Cupid is drawn with a bandage round his eyes. Blind: yes, because he does not see what he does not like; but the sharpest-sighted hunter in the universe is Love for finding what he seeks, and only that.
Love is deemed the tenderest
affections, as even the blind and the deaf know; but I know, what few believe, that true friendship is more tender still.
Love is eternally awake, never tired with labour, nor oppressed with affliction, nor discouraged by fear.
Love is ever busy with his shuttle, is ever wearing into life's dull warp bright gorgeous flowers and scenes Arcadian.
Love is ever the beginning of knowledge, as
fire is of light; and works also more in the manner of fire.
Love is ever the gift, the sacrifice of self.
Love is full of unbefitting strains; / All wanton as a child, skipping and vain; / Formed by the eye, and therefore, like the eye, / Full of strange shapes, of habits, and of forms, / Varying in subjects as the eye doth roll / To every varied object in his glance.
Love is incompatible with fear.
Love is indestructible, / Its holy flame for ever burneth; / From heaven it came, to heaven returneth.
Love is just another name for the inscrutable presence by which the soul is connected with humanity.
Love is kin to duty.
Love is life's end--an end, but never ending....
Love is life's wealth; ne'er spent, but ever spending.... Love's life's reward, rewarded in rewarding.
Love is like the painter, who, being to draw the picture of a friend having a blemish in one eye, would picture only the other side of his face.
Love is loveliest when embalmed in tears.
Love is merely a madness.
Love is mightier than indignation.
Love is more pleasing than marriage, because
romances are more amusing than history.
Love is neither bought nor sold.
Love is never lasting which flames before it burns.
Love is not a fire which can be confined within the breast; everything betrays it; and its fires imperfectly covered, only burst out the more.
Love is not altogether a delirium, yet has it many points in common therewith ... I call it rather a discerning of the Infinite in the Finite, of the Idea made Real; which discerning again may be either true or false, either seraphic or demonic, Inspiration or Insanity.
Love is not blind; it is an extra eye, which
shows us what is most worthy of regard.
Love is not love / Which alters when it alteration finds.
Love is not to be reason'd down or lost / In high ambition or a thirst of greatness.
Love is old, old as eternity, but not outworn; with each new being born or to be born.
Love is omnipresent in nature as motive and reward.
Love is sparingly soluble in the words of men,
therefore they speak much of it; but one syllable of woman's speech can dissolve more of it than a man's heart can hold.
Love is strong as death. Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it.
Love is strongest in pursuit, friendship in possession.
Love is swift, sincere, pious, pleasant, gentle, strong, patient, faithful, prudent, long-suffering, manly, and never seeking her own.
Love is the bond which never corrodes.
Love is the business of the idle, but the idleness
of the busy.
Love is the eldest, noblest, and mightiest of the gods, and the chiefest author and giver of virtue in life and happiness after death.
Love is the greatest thing that God can give us, and it is the greatest we can give God.
Love is the joining of two souls on their way to God.
Love is the master-key that opens every ward of the heart of man.
Love is the most easy and agreeable, and
gratitude the most humiliating, affection of the mind.
Love is the mother of love.
Love is the occupation of an idle man, the amusement of a busy one, and the shipwreck of a sovereign.
Love is the only ink which does not fade.
Love is the only memory which strengthens with time.
Love is vanity, / Selfish in its beginning as its
end.
Love knows nothing of labour.
Love labour; for if thou dost not want it for food, thou may'st for physic.
Love laughs at locksmiths.
Love lessens the woman's refinement and strengthens the man's.
Love lieth deep; Love dwells not in lip-depths;
/ Love laps his wings on either side the heart / ... Absorbing all the incense of sweet thoughts, / So that they pass not to the shrine of sound.
Love lightens labour and sweetens sorrow.
Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues; / Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.
Love, like fire, cannot subsist without continual motion, and ceases to exist as soon as it ceases to hope or fear.
Love, like men, dies oftener of excess than hunger.
Love likes not shallow mirth.
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind; / And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind.
Love makes labour light.
Love makes obedience lighter than liberty.
Love makes time pass away, and time makes love pass away.
Love me little, love me long, / Is the burden of
my song; / Love that is too hot and strong / Burneth soon to waste; / Still I would not have thee cold, / Not too backward or too bold; / Love that lasteth till 'tis old / Fadeth not in haste.
Love me, love my dog.
Love mocks all sorrows but its own, and damps each joy he does not yield.
Love moderately; long love doth so; / Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
Love must be as much a light as a flame.
Love must be taken by stratagem, not by open force.
Love never reasons, but profusely gives--gives, like a thoughtless prodigal, its all, and trembles then lest it has done too little.
Love not pleasure; love God. This is the everlasting Yea, wherein all contradiction is solved: wherein whoso walks and works, it is well with him.
Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty.
Love not thyself, nor give thy humours way; /
God gave them to thee under lock and key.
Love of gain never made a painter, but it has marred many.
Love of glory can only create a great hero; contempt of it creates a great man.
Love of men cannot be bought by cash payment; and without love men cannot endure to be together.
Love of power, merely to make flunkeys come and go for you, is a love, I should think, which enters only into the minds of persons in a very infantine state.
Love of truth shows itself in being able everywhere
to find and value what is good.
Love on his lips and hatred in his heart: / His motto--constancy, his creed--to part.
Love one human being with warmth and purity, and thou wilt love the world. The heart, in that celestial sphere of love, is like the sun in its course. From the drop on the rose to the ocean, all is for him a mirror, which he fills and brightens.
Love one time layeth burdens, another time giveth wings.
Love ought to raise a low heart and not humble a high one.
Love ower het
Love prefers twilight to daylight.
Love reckons hours for months, and days for years; and every little absence is an age.
Love requires not so much proofs as expressions of love.
Love rules his kingdom without a sword.
Love rules the camp, the court, the grove, /
And men below and saints above; / For love is heaven, and heaven is love.
Love rules without a sword and binds without a cord.
Love rules without law.
Love sees what no eye sees; hears what no ear hears; and what never rose in the heart of man love prepares for its object.
Love seldom haunts the breast where learning lies, / And Venus sets ere Mercury can rise.
Love should have some rest and pleasure in
himself, / Not ever be too curious for a boon, / Too prurient for a proof against the grain / Of him ye say ye love.
Love should not be all on one side.
Love shows, even to the dullest, the possibilities of the human race.
Love silence rather than speech in these tragic days, when for very speaking the voice of man has fallen inarticulate to man.
Love sought is good, but given unsought is better.
Love strikes one hour--love. Those never
loved / Who dream that they loved once.
Love that can flow, and can admit increase, / Admits as well an ebb, and may grow less.
Love the good and forgive the bad.
Love, the last relay and ultimate outpost of eternity.
Love the sense of right and wrong confounds; / Strong love and proud ambition have no bounds.
Love thinks nae ill, envy speaks nae gude.
Love thyself, and many will hate thee.
Love to a yielding heart is a king, but to a resisting is a tyrant.
Love to make others happy; yes, surely at all times, so far as you can. But at bottom that is not the aim of any life. Do not think that your life means a mere searching in gutters for fallen creatures to wipe and set up.... In our life there is no meaning at all except the work we have done.
Love too late can never glow.
Love took up the harp of life, and smote on all
the chords with might; / Smote the chord of Self, that, trembling, passed in music out of sight.
Love-verses, writ without any real passion, are the most nauseous of all conceits.
Love waits for love, though the sun be set, / And the stars come out, the dews are wet, / And the night-winds moan.
Love--what a volume in a word, an ocean in a tear!
Love, when founded in the heart, will show itself in a thousand unpremeditated sallies of fondness; but every cool deliberate exhibition of the passion only argues little understanding or great insincerity.
Love which hath ends will have an end.
Love, which is only an episode in the life of a man, is the entire history of a woman's life.
Love, which is the essence of God, is not for levity, but for the total worth of man.
Love will creep where it cannot go.
Love will find its way / Through paths where wolves would fear to prey.
Love will subsist on wonderfully little hope,
but not altogether without it.
Love with men is not a sentiment, but an idea.
Love without return is like a question without an answer.
Love worketh no ill to his neighbour; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.
Love works a different way in different minds, / The fool enlightens and the wise he blinds.
Love yet lives, and patience shall find rest.
Love your enemies, do good to them that hate you, bless them that curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you.
Love your neighbour, but don't tear down the fence.
Love yourself, and in that love / Not unconsidered leave your honour.
Love's fire, if it once go out, is hard to kindle.
Love's heralds should be thoughts, / Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams / Driving back shadows over lowering hills.
Love's not love / When it is mingled with regards that stand / Aloof from the entire point.
Love's of a strangely open simple kind, / And thinks none sees it 'cause itself is blind.
Love's of itself too sweet; the best of all / Is when love's honey has a dash of gall.
Love's plant must be watered with tears and
tended with care.
Love's reasons without reason.
Love's sweetest meanings are unspoken; the full heart knows no rhetoric of words, and resorts to the pantomime of sighs and glances.
Love's the noblest frailty of the mind.
Love's true function in the world is as the regenerator and restorer of social life, the reconciler and uniter of living men.
Love's voice doth sing as sweetly in a beggar
as a king.
Lovely, far more lovely, the sturdy gloom of laborious indigence than the fawning simper of thriving adulation.
Loveliness does more than destroy ugliness; it destroys matter. A mere touch of it in a room, in a street, even on a door-knocker, is a spiritual force.
Loveliness / Needs not the foreign aid of ornament, / But is, when unadorn'd, adorn'd the most.
Lovers and madmen have such seething brains, / Such shaping fantasies, that apprehend / More than cool reason ever comprehends.
Lovers are as punctual as the sun.
Lovers are never tired of each other; they always speak of themselves.
Lovers break not hours, / Unless it be to come before their time; / So much they spur their expedition.
Lovers' purses are tied with cobwebs.
Lovers
world, but they forget that the world sees them.
Lovers' time runs faster than the clock.
Loving goes by haps; some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
Lowliness is the base of every virtue, and he who goes the lowest builds the safest.
Lowliness is young ambition's ladder, / Whereto the climber-upward turns his face; / But when he once attains the upmost round, / He then unto the ladder turns his back, / Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees / By which he did ascend.
Loyal à la mort
Loyal en tout
Loyal je serai durant ma vie
Loyauté m'oblige
Loyauté n'a honte
Lubrici sunt fortunæ gressus
Lubricum linguæ non facile in pœnam est
trahendum
Luck is ever waiting for something to turn up. Labour, with keen eyes and strong will, will turn up something. Luck relies on chance, labour on character.
Luck is everything in promotion.
Luck is the idol of the idle.
Luck, mere luck, may make even madness
wisdom.
Luck seeks those who flee, and flees those who seek it.
Lucri bonus est odor ex re / Qualibet
Luctantem Icariis fluctibus Africum / Mercator metuens, otium et oppidi / Laudat rura sui: mox reficit rates / Quassas, indocilis pauperiem pati
Ludere cum sacris
Ludit in humanis divina potestas rebus, / Et
certam præsens vix habet hora fidem
Lugete o Veneres Cupidinesque
Lull'd in the countless chambers of the brain, / Our thoughts are linked by many a hidden chain; / Awake but one, and lo! what myriads rise! / Each stamps its image as the other flies.
Lupo agnum eripere postulant
Lupo ovem commisisti
Lupus in fabula
Lupus non curat numerum (ovum)
Lupus pilum mutat, non mentem
Lusisti satis, edisti satis, atque bibisti; / Tempus abire tibi est
Lust--hard by fate.
Lust is a sharp spur to vice, which always putteth the affections into a false gallop.
Lust is an enemy to the purse, a canker to the mind, a corrosive to the conscience, a weakness of the wit, a besotter of the senses, and a mortal bane to all the body.
Lust is, of all the frailties of our nature, / What most we ought to fear; the headstrong beast / Rushes along, impatient of the course; / Nor hears the rider's call, nor fears the rein.
Lust of gain, in the spirit of Cain, is it better
or worse / Than the heart of the citizen hissing in war on his own hearthstone?
Lust und Liebe sind die Fittiche / Zu grossen Thaten
Lust yielded to is a pleasant madness, but it is a desperate madness when opposed.
Lusus naturæ
Luther's shoes don't fit every country parson.
Luther's words are half battles.
Luxuriæ desunt multa, avaritiæ omnia
Luxuriant animi rebus plerumque secundis; / Nec facile est æqua commoda mente pati
Luxury is a nice master, hard to be pleased.
Luxury is an enticing pleasure, a bastard mirth, which hath honey in her mouth, gall in her heart, and a sting in her tail.
Luxury possibly may contribute to give bread
to the poor; but if there were no luxury, there would be no poor.
Lydius lapis
Lying and stealing live next door to each other.
Lying is a breach of promise; for whoever seriously addresses his discourse to another tacitly promises to speak the truth, because he knows the truth is expected.
Lying is a disgraceful vice, "affording testimony," as Plutarch says, "that one first despises God and then fears men."
Lying is the strongest acknowledgment of
the force of truth.
Lying lips are an abomination unto the Lord.
Lying may be pernicious in its general tendency, and therefore criminal, though it produce no particular or visible mischief to any one.
Lying pays no tax.
Lying rides on debt's back.
Lynx envers nos pareils, et taupes envers
nous
Lyrical poetry is much the same in every age, as the songs of the nightingales in every spring-time.
Ma vie est un combat
Macbeth does murder sleep, the innocent sleep; / Sleep, that knits up the ravell'd sleeve of care, / The death of each day's life, sore labour's bath, / Balm of hurt minds, great Nature's second course, / Chief nourisher in life's feast.
Mach' dich nicht zu hoch, die Thür ist niedrig
Mach' es Wenigen recht: Vielen gefallen ist
schlimm
Machines cannot increase the possibilities of life, only the possibilities of idleness.
Macht, was ihr wollt; nur lasst mich ungeschoren
Mächtig in Werke, nicht in Worte
Macies et nova febrium / Terris incubuit cohors
Macte nova virtute, puer, sic itur ad astra
Macte virtute
Macte virtute diligentiaque esto
Maculæ quas incuria fudit
Mad bulls cannot be tied up with a packthread.
Mad dogs cannot live long.
Mad people think others mad.
Madame fut douce envers la mort, comme elle l'était envers tout le monde
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.
Madness is consistent, which is more than can be said for poor reason. Our passions and principles are steady in frenzy, but begin to shift and waver as we return to reason.
Madness is the last stage of human debasement.
It is the abdication of humanity. Better to die a thousand times!
Madruga y verás, trabaja y habrás
Magalia quondam
Magasins de nouveautés
Magis gaudet quam qui senectam exuit
Magis magni clerici non sunt magis sapientes
Magister alius casus
Magister artis ingeniique largitor / Venter
Magister dixit
Magistratum legem esse loquentem, legem autem mutum magistratum
Magistratus indicat virum
Magna Charta
Magna civitas, magna solitudo
Magna comitante caterva
Magna est admiratio copiose sapienterque dicentis
Magna est veritas et prævalebit
Magna est vis consuetudinis: hæc ferre laborem, contemnere vulnus et dolorem docet
Magna fuit quondam capitis reverentia cani, / Inque suo pretio ruga senilis erat
Magna servitus est magna fortuna
Magna vis est, magnum nomen, unum et idem sentientis senatus
Magnæ felicitates multum caliginis mentibus
humanis objiciunt
Magnæ fortunæ comes adest adulatio
Magnanimiter crucem sustine
Magnanimity is the good sense of pride, and the noblest way of acquiring applause.
Magnanimity owes to prudence no account of its motives.
Magnas inter opes inops
Magni animi est injurias despicere
Magni animi est magna contemnere, ac mediocria malle quam nimia
Magni est ingenii revocare mentem a sensibus, et cogitationem a consuetudine abducere
Magni nominis umbra
Magni refert quibuscum vixeris
Magnificat
Magnificence cannot be cheap, for what is cheap cannot be magnificent.
Magnis excidit ausis
Magno conatu magnas nugas
Magno cum periculo custoditur, quod multis
placet
Magno de flumine mallem / Quam ex hoc fonticulo tantundem sumere
Magnorum haud unquam indignus avorum
Magnum est argumentum in utroque fuisse moderatum
Magnum hoc ego duco / Quod placui tibi qui turpi secernis honestum
Magnum hoc vitium vino est, / Pedes captat
primum; luctator dolosus est
Magnum pauperies opprobrium jubet / Quidvis aut facere aut pati
Magnum vectigal est parsimonia
Magnus ab integro sæclorum nascitur ordo
Magnus Alexander corpore parvus erat
Magnus animus remissius loquitur et securius
Magnus Apollo
Magnus sine viribus ignis / Incassum furit
Mãi aguçosa, filha preguiçosa
Maidens' bairns and bachelors' wives are aye weel bred.
Maidens, like moths, are ever caught with
glare, / And Mammon wins his way where seraphs might despair.
Maidens should be mild and meek, / Swift to hear, and slow to speak.
Maids are May when they are maids, but the sky changes when they are wives.
Maids should be seen and not heard.
Maids want nothing but husbands, and when they have them they want everything.
Maids well summered, and warm kept, are like
flies at Bartholomew-tide--blind, though they have their eyes.
Maintien le droit
Mair by luck than gude guiding
Mais au moindre revers funeste / Le masque tombe, l'homme reste / Et le héros s'évanouit
Mais de quoi sont composées les affaires du monde? Du bien d'autrui
Maison d'arrêt
Maison de force
Maître Jacques
Major e longinquo reverentia
Major famæ sitis est quam / Virtutis; quis enim virtutem amplectitur ipsam, / Præmia si tollas?
Major hereditas venit unicuique nostrum a jure et legibus, quam a parentibus
Major privato visus, dum privatus fuit, et omnium consensu capax imperii, nisi imperasset
Major rerum mihi nascitur ordo
Major sum quam cui possit Fortuna nocere / Multaque ut eripiat, multo mihi plura relinquet. / Excessere metum mea jam bona
Majore tumultu / Planguntur nummi quam funera, nemo dolorem / Fingit in hoc casu / ... Ploratur lacrimis amissa pecunia veris
Majoresque cadunt altis de montibus umbræ
Majori cedo
Majority is applied to number, and superiority
to power.
Majus et minus non variant speciem
Make a crutch of your cross.
Make a virtue of necessity.
Make all sure, and keep all pure.
Make clean thy conscience; hide thee there.
Make clean work, and leave no tags. Allow no delays when you are at a thing; do it and be done with it.
Make doors fast upon a woman's wit, and it will out at the casement; shut that, and 'twill out at the keyhole.
Make every bargain clear and plain, / That none may afterwards complain.
Make good cheese, if you make little.
Make haste slowly.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Make it an invariable and obligatory law to yourself never to mention your own mental diseases. When you talk of them, it is plain that you want either praise or pity; for praise there is no room, and pity will do you no good.
Make knowledge circle with the winds; / But let her herald, Reverence, fly / Before her to whatever sky / Bear seed of men and growth of minds.
Make no enemies; he is insignificant indeed that can do thee no harm.
Make not a bosom friend of a melancholy sad
soul.... He goes always heavy-loaded, and thou must bear half.
Make not another's shoes by your own foot.
Make not thy friend too cheap to thee, nor thyself to thy friend.
Make not thy sport abuses; for the fly, / That feeds on dung, is coloured thereby.
Make not thy tail broader than thy wings.
Make not two sorrows of one.
Make short the miles with talk and smiles.
Make temperance thy companion, so shall health sit on thy brow.
Make the most and the best of your lot, and compare yourself not with the few that are above you, but with the multitudes which are below you.
Make the most of time, it flies away so fast; yet method will teach you to win time.
Make the night night, and the day day, and
you will have a pleasant time of it.
Make the plaster as large as the sore.
Make thee my knight? my knights are sworn to vows / Of utter hardihood, utter gentleness, / And, loving, utter faithfulness in love, / And uttermost obedience to the king.
Make thick my blood, / Stop up the access and passage to remorse, / That no compunctious visitings of Nature / Shake my fell purpose.
Make thy claim of wages for this world, and all worlds, at zero--at nothing; thus, and thus only, hast thou the world at thy feet.
Make your educational laws strict, and your
criminal ones may be gentle; but leave youth its liberty, and you will have to dig dungeons for age.
Make your hay as best you may.
Make your mark, but mind what your mark is.
Make yourself an ass, and you'll have every man's sack on your shoulders.
Make yourself an honest man, and then you may be sure that there is one rascal less in the world.
Make yourself necessary to the world and
mankind will give you bread.
Make yourselves necessary to somebody.
Mal à propos
Mala causa silenda est
Mala fides
Mala gallina, malum ovum
Mala grammatica non vitiat chartam
Mala mali malo mala contulit omnia mundo
Mala mens, malus animus
Mala merx hæc, et callida est
Mala ultro adsunt
Maladie du pays
Male cuncta ministrat / Impetus
Male imperando summum imperium amittitur
Male parta male dilabuntur
Male partum male disperit
Male secum agit æger, medicum qui hæredem facit
Male verum examinat omnis / Corruptus judex
Male vivunt qui se semper victuros putant
Malebranche saw all things in God, and M. Necker saw all things in Necker.
Maledicus a malefico non distat nisi occasione
Malesuada fames
Malheureux celui qui est en avance de son siècle
Mali principii malus finis
Malice is a passion so impetuous and precipitate, that it often involves the agent and the patient.
Malice sucks up the greatest part of our own venom, and poisons herself.
Malim indisertam prudentiam, quam stultitiam loquacem
Malim inquietam libertatem quam quietum servitium
Malis avibus
Malo benefacere tantumdem est periculum / Quantum bono malefacere
Malo cum Platone errare, quam cum aliis recte sentire
Malo mihi male quam molliter esse
Malo mori quam fœdari
Malo nodo malus quærendus cuneus
Malorum facinorum ministri quasi exprobrantes aspiciuntur
Malum consilium consultori pessimum
Malum est consilium quod mutari non potest
Malum in se
Malum nascens facile opprimitur; inveteratum
fit robustius
Malum prohibitum
Malum vas non frangitur
Malus bonum ubi se simulat, tunc est pessimus
Malus est enim custos diuturnitatis metus, contraque benevolentia fidelis vel ad perpetuitatem
Malus usus est abolendus
Mammon has enriched his thousands, and has damned his ten thousands.
Mammon, the least erected spirit that fell / From heaven.
Mammon wins his way where seraphs might despair.
Man alone is born crying, lives complaining, and dies disappointed.
Man always worships something; always he
sees the infinite shadowed forth in something finite; and indeed can and must so see it in any finite thing, once tempt him well to fix his eyes thereon.
Man am I grown, a man's work must I do. / Follow the deer? follow the Christ, the King, / Live pure, speak true, right wrong, follow the King--/ Else wherefore born?
Man and man only can do the impossible; / ... He to the moment endurance can lend.
Man becomes greater in proportion as he learns to know himself and his faculty. Let him once become conscious of what he is, and he will soon also learn to be what he should.
Man becomes man only by the intelligence, but he is man only by the heart.
Man, behind his everlasting blind, which he
only colours differently, and makes no thinner, carries his pride with him from one step to another, and on the higher step blames only the pride of the lower.
Man can dispense with much but not with men.
Man can elect the universal man, / And live in life that ends not with his breath.
Man can invent nothing nobler than humanity.
Man can only learn to rise from the consideration of that which he cannot surmount.
Man cannot be a naturalist, until he satisfies all the demands of the spirit.
Man cannot choose his duties.
Man cannot live without his formulas.
Man carries under his hat a private theatre,
wherein a greater drama is acted than ever on the mimic stage, beginning and ending in eternity.
Man consists in truth. If he exposes truth, he exposes himself. If he betrays truth, he betrays himself. We speak not here of lies, but of acting against conviction.
Man could direct his ways by plain reason, and support his life by tasteless food; but God has given us wit, and flavour, and brightness, and laughter, and perfumes, to enliven the day of man's pilgrimage, and to charm his pained steps over the burning marl.
Man creeps into childhood, bounds into youth, sobers into manhood, and softens into age.
Man darf nur sterben, um gelobt zu werden
Man delights not me; no, nor woman neither.
Man disputirt mehr über die Schaale, als über den Kern
Man does not willingly submit himself to reverence; or rather, he never so submits himself: it is a higher sense which must be communicated to his nature, which only in some peculiarly favoured individuals unfolds itself spontaneously, who on this account too have of old been looked upon as saints and gods.
Man does not wish to be told the truth.
Man doth what he can, and God what He will.
Man dreams of fame while woman wakes to
love.
Man ever tends to reckon his own insight as final, and goes upon it as such.
Man everywhere is the born enemy of lies.
Man findet tausend Gelehrte, bis man auf einen weisen Mann stösst
Man for the field and woman for the hearth; / Man for the sword and for the needle she: / Man with the head and woman with the heart: / Man to command and woman to obey; / All else confusion.
Man, forget not death, for death certainly forgets
not thee.
Man gives up all pretension to the infinite while he feels here that neither with thought nor without it is he equal to the finite.
Man had not a hammer to begin, not a syllabled articulation; they had it all to make--and they have made it.
Man has a brief flowering season and a long fading.
Man has a silent and solitary literature written by his heart upon the tables of stone in Nature; and next to God's finger, a man's heart writes the most memorable things.
Man has a soul as certainly as he has a body;
nay, much more certainly; properly it is the course of his unseen spiritual life, which informs and rules his external visible life, rather than receives rule from it, in which spiritual life the true secret of his history lies.
Man has always humour enough to make merry with what he cannot help.
Man has ever been a striving, struggling, and, in spite of wide-spread calumnies to the contrary, a veracious creature.
Man has in his own soul an Eternal; can read something of the Eternal there, if he will look.
Man has not a greater enemy than himself.
Man has quite a peculiar pleasure in making
proselytes; in causing others to enjoy what he enjoys, in finding his own likeness represented and reflected back to him.
Man has seldom an offer of kindness to make to a woman but she has a presentiment of it some moments before.
Man has two and a half minutes here below--one to smile, one to sigh, and half a one to love; for in the midst of this minute he dies.
Man, if he compare himself with all he can see, is at the zenith of his power; but if he compare himself with all he can conceive, he is at the nadir of his weakness.
Man is a born owl.
Man is a bundle of habits.
Man is a darkened being; he knows not whence he comes, nor whither he goes; he knows little of the world and least of himself.
Man is a fallen god, who remembers heaven, his former dwelling-place.
Man is a forked radish with head fantastically carved.
Man is a forked straddling animal with bandy legs.
Man is a military animal, / Glories in gunpowder
and loves parade.
Man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave.
Man is a poetical animal, and delights in fiction.
Man is a spirit, and bound by invisible bonds to all men.
Man is a stream whose source is hidden.
Man is a substance clad in shadows.
Man is a sun; his senses are the planets.
Man is a tool-using animal; ... without tools he is nothing, with tools he is all.
Man is actually here, not to ask questions but to do work; in this time, as in all times, it must be the heaviest evil for him if his faculty of action lie dormant, and only that of sceptical inquiry exert itself.
Man is an animal that cooks his victuals.
Man is an animal that makes bargains; no other animal does this.
Man is an imitative creature, and whoever is foremost leads the herd.
Man is, and always was, a blockhead and dullard; much readier to feel and digest than to think and consider.
Man is, beyond dispute, the most excellent of created beings, and the vilest animal is a dog; but the sages agree that a grateful dog is better than an ungrateful man.
Man is born not to solve the problems of the
universe, but to find out where the problem begins, and then to restrain himself within the limits of the comprehensible.
Man is born unto trouble, as the sparks fly upward.
Man is but a little thing in the midst of the objects of nature, yet, by the moral quality radiating from his countenance, he may abolish all considerations of magnitude, and, in his manners, equal the majesty of the world.
Man is but a reed, the weakest thing in nature, but he is a reed that thinks.
Man is created free, is free, even if he were born in chains.
Man is created to fight; he is perhaps best of
all definable as a born soldier; his life "a battle and a march" under the right generals.
Man is emphatically a proselytising creature.
Man is ever the most interesting object to man, and perhaps should be the only one to interest him.
Man is explicable by nothing less than all his history.
Man is fire and woman tow; the devil comes and sets them in a blaze.
Man is first a spirit, bound by invisible bonds
to all men; and secondly, he wears clothes, which are the visible emblems of that fact.
Man is for ever the born thrall of certain men, born master of certain other men, born equal of certain others, let him acknowledge the fact or not.
Man is for ever the brother of man.
Man is free as the bird is in its cage: he can move about within certain limits.
Man is God's image; but a poor man is / Christ's stamp to boot: both images regard. / God reckons for him, counts the favour His.
Man is greater than a world, than systems of
worlds; there is more mystery in the union of soul with the physical than in the creation of a universe.
Man is his own star, and the soul that can / Render an honest and a perfect man, / Commands all light, all influence, all fate; / Nothing to him falls early or too late.
Man is intended for a limited condition; objects that are simple, near, determinate, he comprehends, and he becomes accustomed to employ such means as are at hand; but on entering a wider field he now knows neither what he would nor what he should.
Man is like the worker at Gobelins, who weaves on the wrong side a tapestry of which he does not see the design.
Man is made great or little by his own will.
Man is man by virtue of willing, not by virtue
of knowing and understanding; and as he is, so he sees.
Man is man everywhere.
Man is man only as he makes life and nature happier to us.
Man is more often injured than helped by the means he uses.
Man is more than constitutions.
Man is neither an angel nor a brute, and it is
his evil destiny if he aspires to be the former, to sink into the latter.
Man is neither the vile nor the excellent being which he sometimes imagines himself to be.
Man is not a piece of clay to be moulded, but a plant to be cultivated.
Man is not as God, / But then most godlike, being most a man.
Man is not born to be free, and for the noble there is no fairer fortune than to serve a prince whom he honours.
Man is not God, but hath God's end to serve, /
A master to obey, a course to take, / Somewhat to cast off, somewhat to become.
Man is not made to question, but adore.
Man is not the creature of circumstances; circumstances are the creatures of men. We are free agents, and man is more powerful than matter.
Man is nothing but contradiction; the less he knows it the more dupe he is.
Man is of the earth, but his thoughts are with the stars. A pigmy standing on the outward crest of this small planet, his far-reaching spirit stretches outward to the infinite, and there alone finds rest.
Man is often a wolf to man, a serpent to God,
and a scorpion to himself.
Man is one, and he hath one great heart.
Man is one world, and hath / Another to attend him.
Man is only truly great when he acts from his passions; never irresistible but when he appeals to the imagination.
Man is only what he becomes, but he becomes only what he is.
Man is physically as well as metaphysically a
thing of shreds and patches, borrowed unequally from good and bad ancestors, and a misfit from the start.
Man is placed in this world as a spectator; when he is tired with wondering at all the novelties about him, and not till then, does he desire to be made acquainted with the causes that create those wonders.
Man is properly an incarnated word; the word that he speaks is the man himself.
Man is, properly speaking, based upon Hope, he has no other possession but Hope; this world of his is emphatically the Place of Hope.
Man is quite sufficiently saddened by his own passions and destiny, and need not make himself more so by the darkness of a barbaric past. He needs enlightening and cheering influences, and should therefore turn to those eras in art and literature during which remarkable men obtained perfect culture.
Man is so inconsistent a creature that it is impossible to reason from his belief to his conduct, or from one part of his belief to another.
Man is so prone to occupy himself with what is most common, the soul and the senses are so easily blunted to the impressions of the beautiful and perfect, that one ought by all means to preserve the capability of feeling it. We ought every day at least to hear a little song, read a good poem, see an excellent painting, and, if possible, speak a few reasonable words.
Man is that noble endogenous plant which grows, like the palm, from within outward.
Man is the arch-machine of which all these
shifts drawn from himself are toy models. He helps himself on each emergency by copying or duplicating his own structure, just so far as the need is
Man is the circled oak, woman the ivy.
Man is the dwarf of himself.
Man is the end towards which all the animal creation has tended.
Man is the favourite
in the sense that Nature has done everything for him, but that she has given him the power of doing everything for himself
Man is the higher sense of our planet, the
star which connects it with the upper world, the eye which it turns towards heaven
Man is the jewel of God, who has created this material world to keep his treasure in.
Man is the maker of expedients, but not of laws. In his solicitude as to his approaching lot, he has neither time nor desire to raise his eyes to the heavens to watch and record their phenomena; no leisure to look upon himself and consider what and where he is. In the imperious demand for a present support, he dare not venture on speculative attempts at ameliorating his state; he is doomed to be a helpless, isolated, spellbound savage, or, if not isolated, the companion of other savages as careworn as himself.
Man is the merriest species of the creation.
Man is the Messiah of Nature.
Man is the meter of all things; the hand is
the instrument of instruments, and the mind is the form of forms
Man is the Missionary of Order; he is the servant not of the devil and chaos, but of God and the universe.
Man is the nobler growth our realms supply, / And souls are ripened in our northern sky.
Man is the slave of beneficence.
Man is the sum-total of all the animals.
Man is the sun of the world; more than the
real sun. The fire of his wonderful heart is the only light and heat worth gauge or measure. Where he is, are the tropics; where he is not, the ice-world
Man is the weeping animal born to govern all the rest.
Man is the whole encyclopedia of facts. The creation of a thousand forests is in one acorn; and Egypt, Greece, Rome, Gaul, Britain, America, lie enfolded already in the first man.
Man is the will and woman is the sentiment. In this ship of humanity, Will is the rudder and Sentiment the sail; when woman affects to steer, the rudder is only a masked sail.
Man is to man the sorest, surest ill.... / Earth trembles ere her yawning jaws devour; / And smoke betrays the wide-consuming fire; / Ruin from man is most conceal'd when near, / And sends the dreadful tidings in the blow.
Man is too near all kinds of beasts--a fawning
dog, a roaring lion, a thieving fox, a robbing wolf, a dissembling crocodile, a treacherous decoy, a rapacious vulture
Man ist nur eigentlich lebendig, wenn man sich des Wohlwollens Anderer freut
Man, it's surely a pity that thou should'st sit yonder, with nothing but the eye of Omniscience to see thee, and thou with such gift to speak.
Man kan geen loopend paard beslaan
Man kann den Menschen nicht verwehren, / Zu denken, was sie wollen
Man kann ein klarer Denker ohne Gefühl
aber kein starker, kühner Denker ohne dasselbe sein
Man kann in wahrer Freiheit leben / Und doch nicht ungebunden sein
Man kann nicht stets das Fremde meiden, / Das Gute liegt uns oft so fern. / Ein echter deutscher Mann mag keinen Franzen leiden, / Doch ihre Weine trinkt er gern
Man kann nicht wider sein Geshick
Man knows nothing but what he has learned from experience.
Man kommt zu schaun, Man will am liebsten
sehn
Man lebt nur einmal in der Welt
Man, like the gen'rous vine, supported, lives;/ The strength he gains is from the embrace he gives.
Man little knows what calamities are beyond his patience to bear till he tries them.
Man lives in Time, has his whole earthly being, endeavour, and destiny shaped for him by Time; only in the transitory Time-symbol is the ever-motionless eternity we stand on made manifest.
Man lives where he acts.
Man, living, feeling man, is the easy sport of the overmastering present.
Man lobt den Künstler dann erst recht, wenn
man über sein Werk sein Lob vergisst
Man löst sich nicht allmählich von dem Leben!
Man loves before he sees; his heart is open before his eyes; love must irradiate his world for him before he well knows he is in it, what it is made of, and what to make of it.
Man loves little and often, woman much and rarely.
Man, made of the dust of the world, does not forget his origin; and all that is yet inanimate will one day speak and reason.
Man mag Amphion sein und Fels und Wald
bewegen, / Deswegen kann man doch nicht Bauern widerlegen
Man may doubt here and there, but mankind does not doubt.
Man muss die Menschen nur mit dem Krämergewicht, keinesweges mit der Goldwage wiegen
Man muss handeln können, wie man will, um zu handeln, wie man soll
Man muss keinem Menschen trauen, der bei seinen Versicherungen die Hand auf's Herz legt
Man muss nicht reicher scheinen wollen, als
man ist
Man muss seine Irrthümer theuer bezahlen, wenn man sie los werden will, und dann hat man noch von Glück zu sagen
Man muss, will man ein Glück geniessen, / Die Freiheit zu behaupten wissen
Man must hold fast by the belief that the incomprehensible is comprehensible, otherwise he would not search.
Man must serve his time to every trade / Save censure; critics all are ready made.
Man never comprehends how anthropomorphic
he is.
Man, never so often deceived, still watches for the arrival of a brother who can hold him steady to a truth until he has made it his own.
Man, on the dubious waves of error tost.
Man only can create music, for nothing is perfect until, in some way, it touches or passes through man.
Man only mars kind Nature's plan, / And turns the fierce pursuit on man.
Man ought always to have something which
he prefers to life.
Man partly is and wholly hopes to be.
Man perfected by society is the best of all animals; he is the most terrible of all when he lives without law and without justice.
Man proposes, God disposes.
Man, proud man, / Dress'd in a little brief authority; / Most ignorant of what he's most assur'd, / His glassy essence, like an angry ape, / Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven, / As make the angels weep.
Man reconciles himself to almost every event,
however trying, if it happens in the ordinary course of nature. It is the extraordinary that he rebels against.
Man rettet gern aus trüber Gegenwart / Sich in das heitere Gebiet der Kunst, / Und für die Kränkungen der Wirklichkeit / Sucht man sich Heilung in des Dichters Träumen
Man schont die Alten, wie man die Kinder schont
Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.
Man should let alone other's prejudices and examine his own.
Man should not be over-anxious for a subsistence,
for it is provided by the Creator. The infant no sooner droppeth from the womb than the breasts of the mother begin to stream.
Man sieht sich, lernt sich kennen, / Liebt sich, muss sich trennen
Man soll die Stimmen wägen und nicht zählen
Man soll kein Buch nach dem Titelblatt beurtheilen
Man soll nicht mehr Teufel rufen, als man bannen kann
Man spends his life in reasoning on the past,
complaining of the present, and trembling for the future.
Man spricht selten von der Tugend, die man hat; aber desto öfter von der, die uns fehlt
Man spricht vergebens viel, nur zu versagen, / Der and're hört von allem nur das Nein!
Man spricht vom vielen Trinken stets, / Doch nie vom vielen Durste
Man steigt den grünen Berg des Lebens hinauf, um oben auf dem Eisberge zu sterben
Man steigt nicht ungestraft vom Göttermahle / Herunter in den Kreis der Sterblichen
Man supposes that he directs his life and
governs his actions, when his existence is irretrievably under the control of destiny.
Man, that is born of a woman, is of few days, and full of trouble.
Man, the aristocrat amongst the animals.
Man, the little god of this world, is still ever of the same stamp, and is as whimsical as on the first day.
Man the peasant is a being of more marked national character than man the educated and refined.
Man thee for the high endeavour, / Shun the
crowd's ignoble ease! / Fails the noble spirit never, / Wise to think and prompt to seize.
Man thereby
though based to all seeming on the small visible, does nevertheless extend down into the infinite deeps of the Invisible, of which Invisible, indeed, his life is properly the bodying forth.
Man thinks he has an estate of reputation, and is glad to see one that will bring any of it home to him; it is no matter how dirty a bag it is conveyed to him in, or by how clownish a messenger, so the money is good.
Man! / Thou pendulum betwixt a smile and a tear.
Man, though, as Swift has it, "a forked straddling animal with bandy legs," yet is also a spirit, and unutterable mystery of mysteries.
Man unconnected is at home everywhere,
unless he may be said to be at home nowhere.
Man verändert sich oft und bessert sich selten
Man wants but little here below, / Nor wants that little long.
Man was created to work--not to speculate, or feel, or dream.
Man were better relate himself to a statue or picture than to suffer his thoughts to pass in smother.
Man, while he loves, is never quite depraved.
Man, who lives to die, dies to live well, / So if he guide his ways by blamelessness / And earnest will to hinder not, but help, / All things both great and small which suffer life.
Man wird nie betrogen; man betrügt sich selbst
Man without patience is the lamp without oil, and pride in a rage is a bad counsellor.
Man without self-restraint is like a barrel without hoops, and tumbles to pieces.
Man yields to custom as he bows to fate, /
In all things ruled--mind, body, and estate; / In pain, in sickness, we for cure apply / To them we know not, and we know not why.
Man's activity is all too fain to relax; he soon gets fond of unconditional repose.
Man's best candle is his understanding.
Man's body and his mind are exactly like a jerkin and a jerkin's lining--rumple the one, you rumple the other.
Man's conviction should be strong, and so well timed that worldly advantages may seem to have no share in it.
Man's extremity is God's opportunity.
Man's first care should be to avoid the reproaches of his own heart; his next, to escape the censures of the world.
Man's grand fault is, and remains, that he has so many small ones.
Man's grief is but his grandeur in disguise, and discontent is immortality.
Man's gullability is not his worst blessing.
Man's heart eats all things, and is hungry
still.
Man's highest merit always is as much as possible to rule external circumstances, and as little as possible to let himself be ruled by them.
Man's history is little else than a narrative of designs that have failed and hopes that have been disappointed.
Man's inhumanity to man makes countless thousands mourn.
Man's liberty ends, and it ought to end, when that liberty becomes the curse of his neighbours.
Man's life and nature is as it was, and as it
will ever be.
Man's life is a progress, and not a station.
Man's life is an appendix to his heart.
Man's life is filed by his foe.
Man's life is never anything but an ever-vanishing present.
Man's life is not an affair of mere instinct, but
of steady self-control.
Man's life never was a sport to him; it was a stern reality--altogether a serious matter to be alive.
Man's life now, as of old, is the genuine work of God; wherever there is a man, a God also is revealed, and all that is godlike; a whole epitome of the Infinite, with its meanings, lies enfolded in the life of every man.
Man's love is of man's life a thing apart; / 'Tis woman's whole existence.
Man's obligations do not tend toward the past. We know of nothing that binds us to what is behind: our duty lies ahead.
Man's only true happiness is to live in Hope of something to be won by him, in Reverence of something to be worshipped by him, and in Love of something to be cherished by him, and cherished--for ever.
Man's own heart must be ever given to gain that of another.
Man's own judgment is the proper rule and measure of his actions.
Man's philosophies are usually the "supplement
of his practice;" some ornamental logic-varnish, some outer skin of articulate intelligence, with which he strives to render his dumb instinctive doings presentable when they are done.
Man's second childhood begins when a woman gets hold of him.
Man's spiritual nature is essentially one and indivisible.
Man's true, genuine estimate, / The grand criterion of his fate, / Is not--Art thou high or low? / Did thy fortune ebb or flow?
Man's unhappiness, as I construe, comes of his greatness; it is because there is an Infinite in him, which, with all his cunning, he cannot quite bury under the finite.
Man's walk, like all walking, is a series of
falls.
Man's word is God in man.
Man's work lasts till set of sun; / Woman's work is never done.
Manche gingen nach Licht und stürzten in tiefere Nacht nur; sicher im Dämmerschein wandelt die Kindheit dahin
Mancher wähnt sich frei, und siehet / Nicht die Bande, die ihn schnüren
Mandamus
Manebant vestigia morientis libertatis
Manège
Manet alta mente repostum, / Judicium Paridis spretæque injuria formæ
Mange-tout
Manhood begins joyfully and hopefully, not
when we have made a truce with necessity, or even surrendered to it, but only when we have reconciled ourselves to it, and learned to feel that in necessity we are free.
Manhood, when verging into age, grows thoughtful, / Full of wise saws and modern instances.
Manibus pedibusque
Manibus victoria dextris
Manifold is human strife, / Human passion, human pain; / Yet many blessings still are rife, / And many pleasures still remain.
Mankind are earthen jugs with spirits in them.
Mankind are unco' weak, / And little to be trusted; / If self the wavering balance shake, / It's rarely right adjusted.
Mankind at large alway resemble frivolous children; they are impatient of thought, and wish to be amused.
"Mankind follow their several bell-wethers; and if you hold a stick before the wether, so that he is forced to vault in his passage, the whole flock will do the like when the stick is withdrawn; and the thousandth sheep will be seen vaulting impetuously over air, as the first did over an otherwise impassable barrier."
Mankind in general agree in testifying their devotion, their gratitude, their friendship, or their love, by presenting whatever they hold dearest.
Mankind is a science that defies definitions.
 (
Mankind suffer to this hour, and will for long, as is like, because they do not know what to make of the fire of Prometheus. He dared to purloin from the gods and commit into the hands of ordinary men an only gods and their wise-hearted offspring can with safety handle.
Mankind will never lack obstacles to give it trouble, and the pressure of necessity to develop its powers.
Manliana
Männer richten nach Gründen; des Weibes Urteil ist seine Liebe; wo es nicht liebt, hat schon gerichtet das Weib
Manners are not idle, but the fruit / Of loyal
nature and of noble mind.
Manners are of more importance than laws; upon them in a great measure laws depend.
Manners are stronger than laws.
Manners are the happy ways of doing things; each once a stroke of genius or of love, now repeated and hardened into a usage.
Manners are the root, laws only the branches.
Manners are the shadows of virtues, the
momentary display of those qualities which our fellow-creatures love and respect.
Manners carry the world for the moment, character for all time.
Manners easily and rapidly mature into morals.
Manners make laws, manners likewise repeal them.
Manners make the man.
Manners must adorn knowledge, and smooth its way through the world. Like a great rough diamond, it may do very well in a closet by way of curiosity, and also for its intrinsic value.
Männliche, tüchtige Geister werden durch Erkennen eines Irrthums erhöht und gestärkt
Mantua me genuit, Calabri rapuere, tenet nunc / Parthenope. Cecini pascua, rura, duces
Mantua, væ! miseræ nimium vicina Cremonæ
Manu forti
Manu scriptum
Manufacture is intelligible but trivial; creation is great and cannot be understood.
Manum de tabula!
Manum non verterim, digitum non porrexerim
Manus e nubibus
Manus hæc inimica tyrannis
Manus manum lavat
Many a cow stands in the meadow and looks wistfully at the common.
Many a dangerous temptation comes to us
in fine gay colours that are but skin-deep.
Many a discord betwixt man and man the returning seasons soften by degrees into sweetest harmony; but that which bridges over the greatest gap is Love, whose charm unites the earth with heaven above.
Many a father might say, ... "I put in gold into the furnace, and there came out this calf."
Many a fine dish has nothing on it.
Many a genius has been of slow growth. Oaks, that flourish for a thousand years, do not spring up into beauty like a reed.
Many a good cow hath a bad calf.
Many a good drop of broth may come out of an old pot.
Many a good father hath but a bad son.
Many a hand moulded by Nature to give elegance of form to a kid glove is "stinted of its fair proportion" by grubbing toil.
Many a man is mad in certain instances, and goes through life without having perceived it.
Many a man settleth more by an inch of his
will than by an ell of his thrift.
Many a man's vices have at first been nothing worse than good qualities run wild.
Many a meandering discourse one hears, in which the preacher aims at nothing, and--hits it.
Many a one is good because he can do no mischief.
Many a one labours for the day he will never live to see.
Many a one threatens while he quakes for
fear.
Many a seeming farce played on the great stage of the world is in reality a tragedy, if we could but see into the heart of it.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Many a young damsel has been ruined by a fine copy of verses, which she would have laughed at if she had known it had been stolen from Mr. Waller.
Many acquaintances, but few friends.
Many acres will not make a wiseacre.
Many an honest man stands in need of help that has not the face to beg it.
Many an irksome noise, when a long way off, is heard as music.
Many and many a heart of woman, who has not uttered a word during her whole life, has felt more truly and intensely than the poet that has sung most sweetly.
Many are called but few chosen.
Many are idly busy. Domitian was busy, but
then it was catching flies.
Many are wise in jest but fools in earnest.
Many arrive at second masters / Upon their first lord's neck.
Many beat the sack, and mean the miller.
Many books owe their success to the good memories of their authors and the bad memories of their readers.
Many by-walks, many balks; many balks,
much stumbling.
Many can argue, not many converse.
Many can bear adversity, but few contempt.
Many can brook the weather that love not the wind.
Many can make bricks, but cannot build.
Many causes that can plead well for themselves
in the courts of Westminster, have yet in the general court of the universe and free soul of man no word to utter.
Many children, many cares; no children, no felicity.
Many commit sin and blame Satan.
Many cooks spoil the broth.
Many cut broad thongs out of other people's leather.
Many deceive themselves, imagining to find
happiness in change.
Many delight more in giving of presents than in paying their debts.
Many estates are spent in the getting, / Since women, for tea, forsook spinning and knitting, / And men, for their punch, forsook hewing and splitting.
Many find fault without any end, / And yet do nothing at all to mend.
Many flowers open to the sun, but only one follows him constantly. Heart, be thou the sunflower, not only open to receive God's blessing, but constant in looking to Him.
Many get into a dispute well that cannot get out well.
Many go in quest of wool, and come back shorn.
Many go out for clothes, and come home stript.
Many good purposes lie in the churchyard.
Many hands make light work.
Many have been harmed by speech; through thinking, few or none.
Many have been ruined by buying good penny-worths.
Many have been ruined by their fortunes; many have escaped ruin by the want of fortune. To obtain it, the great have become little, and the little great.
Many have come to port after a great storm.
Many have genius, / But, wanting art, are for
ever dumb.
Many have the talents which would make them poets if they had the genius; a few have the genius yet want the talents.
Many have too much, but none enough.
Many hope that the tree may be felled who expect to gather chips by the fall.
Many indifferent things which men originally did from a motive of some sort, they continue to do from habit.
Many kinds of books are permissible, but
there is one kind that is not permissible, the kind that has nothing in it
Many kiss the hand they wish cut off.
Many lick before they bite.
Many littles make a mickle.
Many are fain to praise what is right and do what is wrong.
Many men and women spend their lives in
unsuccessful attempts to spin the flax God sends them upon a wheel they can never use.
Many men attain a knowledge of what is perfect, and of their own insufficiency, and go on doing things by halves to the end of their days.
Many men fancy that what they experience they also understand.
Many men have been capable of doing a wise thing, more a cunning thing, but very few a generous thing.
Many men, in all ages, have triumphed over death, and led it captive; converting its physical victory into a moral victory for themselves, into a zeal and immortal consecration for all that their past life had achieved.
Many men involve themselves deeper in temptations
by being too solicitous to decline them.
Many men know how to flatter; few men know how to praise.
Many men love in themselves what they hate in others.
Many men spend their lives in gazing at their own shadows, and so dwindle away into shadows thereof.
Many of our troubles are God dragging us, and they would end if we would stand upon our feet, and go whither He would have us.
Many of sounding name from Jamblicus down
to Aubrey have wasted their time in devising imaginary remedies for non-existing diseases.
Many of the supposed increasers of knowledge have only given a new name, and often a worse, to what was well known before.
Many old camels carry the skins of the young ones to the market.
Many people are sincere without being simple. They do not wish to be taken for other than they are; and they always fear lest they should be taken for what they are not.
Many people place virtue more in regretting than in amendment.
Many people take no care of their money till
they have come nearly to an end of it, and others do just the same with their time.
Many people think of knowledge as of money. They would like knowledge, but cannot face the perseverance and self-denial that go to the acquisition of it.
Many readers judge of the power of a book by the shock it gives their feelings.
Many rendings need many mendings.
Many sacrifices have been made just to enjoy the feeling of vengeance, without any intention of causing an amount of injury equivalent to what one has suffered.
Many see more with one eye than others with
two.
Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased.
Many so spend their whole term, and in ever-new expectation, ever-new disappointment, shift from enterprise to enterprise, and from side to side, till at length, as exasperated striplings of threescore and ten, they shift into their last enterprise, that of getting buried.
Many speak the truth when they say that they despise riches and preferment; but they mean the riches and preferment possessed by other men.
Many strokes, though with a little axe, / Hew down and fell the hardest timber'd oak.
Many talk like philosophers and live like fools.
Many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be first.
Many there be that buy nothing with their money but repentance.
Many things are too delicate to be thought; many more to be spoken.
Many things difficult to design prove easy of performance.
Many things there are / That we may hope to
win with violence; / While others only can become our own / Through moderation and wise self-restraint. / Such is virtue; such is love.
Many times death passeth with less pain than the torture of a limb; for the most vital parts are not the quickest of sense.
Many ventures make a full freight.
Many walk into the battle and are carried out of it.
Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it.
Many words hurt more than swords.
Many would be cowards if they had courage enough.
Many would have been worse if their estates had been better.
Many young persons believe themselves natural when they are really ill-mannered and coarse.
Mar not what, marred, cannot be mended.
March dust is a thing / Worth ransom of a
king.
March winds and April showers.
Marchand qui perd ne peut rire
Marchandise de rencontre
Marchandise qui plait est à demie vendue
Mare apertum
Mare clausum
Mare cœlo miscere
Mare ditat, rosa decorat
Mare quidem commune certo est omnibus
Margarita e stercore
Maria montesque polliceri cœpit
Mariage de convenance
Marie ton fils quand tu voudras, mais ta fille quand tu pourras
Mark if his birth makes any difference, if to his words it adds one grain of sense.
Mark what another says; for many are /
Full of themselves, and answer their own notion. / Take all into thee; then with equal care / Balance each chain of reason, like a potion.
Marmoreo Licinus tumulo jacet, at Cato parvo, / Pompeius nullo. Quis putet esse deos? / Saxa premunt Licinum, levat altum Fama Catonem, / Pompeium tituli. Credimus esse deos
Marriage, by making us more contented, causes us often to be less enterprising.
Marriage comes unawares, like a soot-drop.
Marriage, indeed, may qualify the fury of his passion, but it very rarely mends a man's manners.
Marriage is a desperate thing. The frogs in
Æsop were extremely wise; they had a great mind to some water, but they would not leap into the well, because they could not get out again.
Marriage is the best state for man in general; and every man is a worse man in proportion as he is unfit for the married state.
Marriage is the bloom or blight of all men's happiness.
Marriage is the feast where the grace is better than the dinner.
Marriage is the mother of the world, and preserves kingdoms, and fills cities and churches, and heaven itself.
Marriage must be a relation either of sympathy
or of conquest.
Marriage with peace is the world's paradise; with strife, this life's purgatory.
Marriages are best of dissimilar material.
Marriages are made in heaven.
Married couples resemble a pair of scissors, often moving in opposite directions, yet always punishing any one who comes between them.
Married in haste, we may repent at leisure.
Marry above your match, and you get a master.
Marry and grow tame.
Marry for love and work for siller.
Marry for love, but only love that which is lovely.
Marrying is easy, but housekeeping is hard.
Mars gravior sub pace latet
Martem accendere cantu
Mas vale buen amigo que pariente primo
Masses are rude, lame, unmade, pernicious in their demands and influence, and need not to be flattered, but to be schooled.
Mässigkeit und klarer Himmel sind Apollo
und die Musen
Masters are mostly the greatest servants in the house.
Masters should be sometimes blind and sometimes deaf.
Masters two / Will not do.
Mastery passes often for egotism.
Match-makers often burn their fingers.
Mater artium necessitas
Mater familias
Materia medica
Materia prima
Materialism coarsens and petrifies everything;
makes everything vulgar, and every truth false.
Materiem, qua sis ingeniosus, habes
Materiem superabat opus
Mathematic form is eternal in the reasoning memory; living form is eternal existence.
Mathematics can remove no prejudices and soften no obduracy. It has no influence in sweetening the bitter strife of parties, and in the moral world generally its action is perfectly null.
Matinée
Matrimony, the high sea for which no compass has yet been invented.
Matter exists only spiritually, and to represent some idea and body it forth.
Matter, were it never so despicable, is spirit, the manifestation of spirit: were it never so honourable, can it be more?
Mature fieri senem, si diu velis esse senex
Maulesel treiben viel Parlaren / Dass ihre
Voreltern Pferde waren
Mauvaise honte
Mauvaise langue
Mauvais pas
Mauvais sujet
Mauvais ton
Maxim or aphorism, let us remember that this wisdom of life is the true salt of literature; that those books are most nourishing which are most richly stored with it, and that it is one of the main objects ... which men ought to seek in the reading of books.
Maxima debetur pueris reverentia
Maxima illecebra est peccandi impunitatis spes
Maxima quæque domus servis est plena superbis
Maximas virtutes jacere omnes necesse est,
voluptate dominante
Maxims are to the intellect what laws are to actions; they do not enlighten, but they guide and direct.
Maximum remedium iræ dilatio est!
Maximus in minimis
Maximus novator tempus
"May-be" is very well, but "must" is the
master.
May cauld ne'er catch you but a hap, / Nor hunger but in plenty's lap.
May never wicked fortune touzle
 (cheer
May never wicked man bamboozle him! / Until a pow as auld's Methusalem / He New Jerusalem / Fleet wing awa'!
May the idea of pureness, extending itself even to the very morsel which I take into my mouth, become ever dearer and more luminous within me.
Me judice
Me justum esse gratis oportet
Me miseram, quod amor non est medicabilis herbis!
Me nemo ministro / Fur erit
Me non solum piget stultitiæ meæ, sed etiam
pudet
Me, poor man, my library was dukedom large enough.
Me (they will kill) when they are mad, but you when they recover their reason.
Mea virtute me involvo
Meal is finer than grain; women are finer than men.
Meals and matins minish never.
Mean spirits under disappointment, like small beer in a thunderstorm, always turn sour.
Measure men around the heart.
Measure not by a scale of perfection the meagre product of reality.
Measure three times before you cut once.
Measure your cloth ten times; you can cut
it but once.
Measures, not men, have always been my mark.
Meat and matins hinder no man's journey.
Meat is devoured by the birds in the air, by the beasts in the fields, and by the fishes in the waters; so, in every situation, there is plenty.
Meat is more than its carving, and truth is more than oratory.
Mecum facile redeo in gratiam
Medici, causa morbi inventa, curationem inventam putant
Medicines are not meant to feed on.
Medio de fonte leporam / Surgit amari aliquid
quod in ipsis floribus angat
Medio tutissimus ibis
Médiocre et rampant, et l'on arrive à tout
Mediocria firma
Mediocribus esse poetis / Non Di, non homines, non concessere columnæ
Mediocrity can talk, but it is for genius to observe.
Mediocrity is not allowed to poets either by gods or men.
Mediocrity of enjoyment only is allowed to
man.
Meditation has taught all men in all ages that this world is after all but a show--a phenomenon or appearance, no real thing.
Meditation is a busy search in the storehouse of phantasy for some ideas of matters to be cast in the moulds of resolution into some forms of words and action; in which search I find this is the best conclusion, that to meditate on the best is the best of meditations, and a resolution to make a good end is a good end of my resolutions.
Meditation is the life of the soul; action, the soul of meditation; honour, the reward of action.
Meditation is the soul's perspective glass, whereby in her long removes she discerneth God as if he were nearer at hand.
Medium tenuere beati!
Meekness is not mere white-facedness, a mere contemplative virtue; it is maintaining peace and patience in the midst of pelting provocations.
Meekness is not weakness.
Meekness is the bridle of anger.
Meekness is the cherish'd bent / Of all the truly great and all the innocent.
Meglio amici da lontano che nemici d'appresso
Meglio solo che mal accompagnato
Meglio tardi che mai
Mehr Leute beten die aufgehende, als die untergehende Sonne an
Mehr Licht!
Meikle crack fills nae sack.
Mein einz'ger Wunsch ist meiner Wünsche Ruhe
Mein erst Gesetz ist, in der Welt / Die Frager zu vermeiden
Mein Herz gleicht ganz dem Meere, / Hat Sturm und Ebb' und Flut, / Und manche schöne Perle / In seiner Tiefe ruht
Mein Leben ist für Gold nicht feil
Mein Leipzig lob' ich mir! / Es ist klein Paris, und bildet seine Leute
Mein Pathos brächte dich gewiss zum Lachen, / Hätt'st du dir nicht das Lachen abgewöhnt
Mein Ruh' ist hin, / Mein Herz ist schwer; / Ich finde sie nimmer / Und nimmermehr
Mein Sohn, nichts in der Welt ist unbedeutend. / Das erste aber und Hauptsächlichste / Bei allem ird'schen Ding ist Ort und Stunde
Mein Wille ist rein, das weitere gebe ich der
Vorsehung anheim!
Meine Herren, did you never hear of the man that vilified the sun because it would not light his cigar?
Meine Zeit in Unruhe, meine Hoffnung in Gott!
Meiner Idee nach ist Energie die erste und einzige Tugend des Menschen
Meines Lebens Wunsch ist stiller Friede
Mel in ore, verba lactis, / Fel in corde, fraus in
factis
Melancholy advanceth men's conceits more than any humour whatever.
Melancholy attends on the best joys of a merely ideal life.
Melancholy is the pleasure of being sad.
Melancholy spreads itself betwixt heaven and earth, like envy between man and man, and is an everlasting mist.
Melior est conditio possidentis
Melior tutiorque est certa pax, quam sperata victoria
Meliora sunt ea quæ natura, quam quæ arte perfecta sunt
Meliores priores
Melioribus auspiciis
Melius est pati semel, quam cavere semper
Melius est peccata cavere quam mortem fugere
Melius, pejus, prosit, obsit, nil vident nisi quod libuerit
Mellitum venenum, blanda oratio
Membra reformidant mollem quoque saucia tactum; / Vanaque sollicitis incutit umbra metum
Même quand l'oiseau marche, on sent qu'il a des ailes
Meminerunt omnia amantes
Memini etiam quæ nolo: oblivisci non possum quæ volo
Memor et fidelis
Memorabilia
Memorem immemorem facit, qui monet quod memor meminit
Memoria in æterna
Memoria minuitur, nisi eam exerceas
Memoriter
Memory always obeys the commands of the heart.
Memory, and thou, Forgetfulness, not yet / Your powers in happy harmony I find; / One oft recalls what I would fain forget, / And one blots out what I would bear in mind.
Memory is a Muse in herself; or rather the
mother of the Muses.
Memory is like a purse: if it be over-full, that it cannot be shut, all will drop out of it.
Memory is not so brilliant as hope, but it is more beautiful, and a thousand times more true.
Memory is the cabinet of imagination, the treasury of reason, the registry of conscience, and the council-chamber of thought.
Memory is the conservative faculty.
Memory is the friend of wit, but the treacherous
ally of invention.
Memory is the golden thread linking all the mental gifts and excellencies together.
Memory
Memory is the primary and fundamental power, without which there could be no other intellectual operation.
Memory is the scribe of the soul.
Memory, of all things good remind us still: /
Forgetfulness, obliterate all that's ill.
Memory tempers prosperity, mitigates adversity, controls youth, and delights old age.
Memory, the warder of the brain.
Men and communities in this world are often in the position of Arctic explorers, who are making great speed in a given direction, while the ice-floe beneath them is making greater speed in the opposite.
Men and cucumbers are worth nothing as soon as they are ripe.
Men and pyramids are not made to stand on
their head.
Men and women who "grill" over the petty annoyances incident to existence, and inseparable from it, go to ruin like a careworn cat.
Men apt to promise are apt to forget.
Men are April when they woo, December when they wed.
Men are as the time is.
Men are at best only stewards, and they are
very select men indeed who are elected of heaven to this honour. The most want the necessary discrimination, and are in their place only when, like Athenian maidens, "bearers of the basket."
Men are but children of a larger growth; / Our appetites are apt to change as theirs, / And full as craving too, and full as vain.
Men are content to be brushed like flies from the path of a great person, so that justice shall be done by him to that common nature which it is the dearest desire of all to see enlarged and glorified.
Men are contented to be laughed at for their wit, but not for their folly.
Men are enlisted for the labour that kills; let them be enlisted for the labour that feeds; and let the captains of the latter be held as much gentlemen as the captains of the former.
Men are eternally divided into the two classes
of poet (or believer, maker, and praiser), and dunce (or unbeliever, unmaker, and dispraiser).
Men are everything, measures are comparatively nothing.
Men are generally more careful of the breed of their horses and dogs than of their children.
Men are happy in proportion as their range of vision, their sphere of action, and their points of contact with the world are restricted and circumscribed.
Men are impatient and for precipitating things; but the Author of Nature appears deliberate throughout his operations, accomplishing his natural ends by slow successive steps.
Men are in general so tricky, so envious, and
so cruel, that when we find one who is only weak, we are too happy.
Men are led by trifles.
Men are less afraid of injuring one who awakens love than one who inspires fear.
Men are like flies--for men are insects too, / Little in mind, howe'er our bodies run!--/ We're all in sects: in sects that hate each other, / And deem it love of God to hate one's brother.
Men are like sheep, of which a flock is more easily driven than a single one.
Men are made by nature unequal: it is vain, therefore, to treat them as if they were equal.
Men are men; the best sometimes forget.
Men are more inclined to ask curious questions than to obtain necessary instruction.
Men are most apt to believe what they least understand.
Men are mostly so slow, their thoughts overrun
'em, an' they can only catch 'em by the tail.
Men are much in disposition and feelings according to the nature of the country which they inhabit.
Men are much more prone (the greater is the pity) both to speak and believe ill than well of their neighbours.
Men are never so easily deceived as while they are endeavouring to deceive others.
Men are never wise but returning from law.
Men are not always what they seem to be.
Men are not influenced by things, but by their thoughts about things.
Men are not leaning willows, but can and must detach themselves.
Men are not put into this world to be everlastingly fiddled on by the fingers of joy.
Men are not so ungrateful as they are said to be. If they are often complained of, it generally happens that the benefactor claims more than he has given.
Men are not to be measured by inches.
Men are often capable of greater things than they perform. They are sent into the world with bills of credit, and seldom draw to their full extent.
Men are oftener treacherous through weakness than design.
Men are readier to forgive calumny than admonition
Men are respectable only as they respect.
Men are seldom blessed with good fortune and
good sense at the same time.
Men are seldom more innocently employed than when they are making money.
Men are so constituted that everybody would rather undertake himself what he sees done by others, whether he has aptitude for it or not.
Men are solitary among each other; no one will help his neighbour; each has even to assume a defensive attitude lest his neighbour should hinder him.
Men are tatooed with their special beliefs like so many South Sea islanders; but a real human heart, with divine love in it, beats with the same glow under all the patterns of all earth's thousand tribes.
Men are the sport of circumstances, when
the circumstances seem the sport of men.
Men are unwiser than children; they do not know the hand that feeds them.
Men are very generous with that which costs them nothing.
Men are we, and must grieve when even the shade / Of that which once was great is passed away.
Men are what their mothers made them.
Men are wiser than they know.
Men at most differ as heaven and earth, / But women, worst and best, as heaven and hell.
Men at some time are masters of their fate.
Men blush less for their crimes than for their weaknesses and vanities.
Men can be estimated by those who know them not, only as they are represented by those who know them.
Men / Can counsel, and speak comfort to that
grief / Which they themselves not feel; but, tasting it, / Their counsel turns to passion, which before / Would give preceptial medicine to rage, / Fetter strong madness in a silken thread, / Charm ache with air and agony with words.
Men can make an idol of the Bible.
Men can see through a barn-door, they can. Perhaps that's the reason they can see so little o' this side on't.
Men cannot be well educated without the Bible.
Men cannot benefit those that are with them as they can benefit those that come after them; and of all the pulpits from which the human voice is ever sent forth, there is none from which it reaches so far as from the grave.
Men cannot live by lending money to each
other.
Men cannot live isolated; we are all bound together, for mutual good or else for mutual misery, as living nerves in the same body. No highest man can disunite himself from any lowest.
Men carry the head erect indeed, yet how mean and cringing are the thoughts within.
Men cease to interest us when we find their limitations.
Men chew not when they have no bread.
Men commonly think according to their inclinations,
speak according to their learning and imbibed opinions, but generally act according to custom.
Men complain of not finding a place of repose. They are in the wrong; they have it for seeking. What they indeed should complain of is, that the heart is an enemy to that very repose they seek.
Men contemplate distinctions because they are stupefied with ignorance
Men deal with life as children with their play, / Who first misuse, then cast their toys away.
Men deride what they do not understand, and snarl at the good and beautiful because it lies beyond their sympathies.
Men descend to meet.
Men do not make their homes unhappy because they have genius, but because they have not enough genius.
Men don't and can't live by exchanging articles, but by producing them: they don't live by trade but by work.
Men dream in courtship, but in wedlock wake.
Men, elevated above all states, are now the
educators of states--dead men, for instance, like Plato.
Men err from selfishness, women because they are weak.
Men fear death as children fear to go in the dark.
Men fear only him who does not know them, and he who shuns them will soon misjudge them.
Men feed themselves rather upon illusion than upon truth.
Men find it more easy to flatter than to praise.
Men have been wise in very different modes; but they have always laughed the same way.
Men have but too much cause to secure themselves from men.
Men have come to speak of the revelation as somewhat long ago given and done, as if God were dead.
Men have many faults; / Poor women have but two; / There's nothing good they say, / And nothing right they do.
Men have their metal, as of gold and silver.
Men in all ways are better than they seem.
Men in general experience a great joy in colour. The eye needs it as much as it does light. Let any one recall the refreshing sensation one experiences when on a gloomy day the sun shines out on a particular spot on the landscape, and makes the colours of it visible. That healing powers were ascribed to coloured precious stones may have arisen out of the deep feeling of this inexpressible pleasure.
Men in great place are thrice servants--servants of the sovereign or state, servants of fame, and servants of business.
Men, in spite of all their failings, best deserve our affections of all that exists.
Men learn behaviour, as they take diseases,
one of another.
Men like advising the women better than doing right themselves.
Men, like bullets, go farthest when they are smoothest.
Men, like musical instruments, seem made to be played upon.
Men, like peaches and pears, grow sweet a little while before they begin to decay.
Men look to what people think of them;
women to what they say.
Men love at first, and most warmly; women love last and longest. This is natural enough, for nature makes women to be won, and men to win.
Men love in haste, but they detest at leisure.
Men love things best; women love persons best.
Men love to nurse their cares, and seem as uneasy without some fret, as an old friar would be without his hair-girdle.
Men love us, or they need our love.
Men make the best friends.
Men may live fools, but fools they cannot die.
Men may rise on stepping-stones / Of their dead selves to higher things.
Men might live quiet and easy enough, if they would be careful not to give themselves trouble, and forbear meddling with what other people do and say, in which they are in no way concerned.
Men more easily renounce their interests than
their tastes.
Men must be taught as though you taught them not.
Men must endure / Their going hence, even as their coming hither: / Ripeness is all.
Men must have righteous principles in the first place, and then they will not fail to perform virtuous actions.
Men must leave the ingle-nook, / And for a larger wisdom brook / Experience of a harder law, / And learn humility and awe.
Men must work, and women must weep, /
Though storms be sudden, and waters deep, / And the harbour bar be moaning.
Men no longer wholly believe; in this age of blindness and scientific pride, no one is any longer seen bowing before his god on both his knees.
Men no sooner find their appetites unanswered than they complain the times are injurious.
Men of age object too much, consult too long, adventure too little, repent too soon, and seldom drive business home to the full period, but content themselves with a mediocrity of success.
Men of courage, men of sense, and men of letters are frequent; but a true gentleman is what one seldom sees.
Men of few words are the best men.
Men of genius are dull and inert in society; as the blazing meteor, when it descends to the earth, is only a stone.
Men of genius are rarely much annoyed by the company of vulgar people, because they have a power of looking at such persons as objects of amusement of another race altogether.
Men of genius do not excel in any profession because they labour in it, but they labour in it because they excel.
Men of genius have acuter feelings than common men; they are like the wind-harp, which answers to the breath that touches it, now low and sweet, now rising into wild swell or angry scream, as the strings are swept by some passing gust.
Men of God have always, from time to time, walked among men, and made their commission felt in the heart and soul of the commonest hearer.
Men of great gifts you will easily find, but symmetrical men never.
Men of great intellect live in the world without really belonging to it.
Men of great learning or genius are too full to be exact, and therefore choose to throw down their pearls in heaps before the reader, rather than be at the pains of stringing them.
Men of great parts are often unfortunate in
the management of public business, because they are apt to go out of the common road by the quickness of their imagination.
Men of humour are always in some degree men of genius; wits are rarely so, although a man of genius may, amongst other gifts, possess wit, as Shakespeare.
Men of most renowned virtue have sometimes by transgressing most truly kept the law.
Men of science should leave controversy to the little world below them.
Men of sense esteem wealth to be the assimilation of nature to themselves, the converting of the sap and juices of the planet to the incarnation and nutriment of their design.
Men of sense often learn from their enemies.
 (_
Men of the first quality learn nothing, and become wise; men of the second rank become of the third sort remain stupid, and learn words.
Men of the greatest abilities are most fired with ambition, and, on the contrary, mean and narrow minds are the least actuated by it.
Men of true wisdom and goodness are contented to take persons and things as they are, without complaining of their imperfections or attempting to amend them.
Men of uncommon abilities generally fall into eccentricities when their sphere of life is not adequate to their powers.
Men only associate in parties by sacrificing
their opinions, or by having none worth sacrificing; and the effect of party government is always to develop hostilities and hypocrisies, and to extinguish ideas.
Men only rightly know themselves as far as they have experimented on things.
Men ought to find the difference between saltness and bitterness.
Men possessed with an idea cannot be reasoned with.
Men possessing small souls are generally the authors of great evils.
Men prize the thing ungained more than it is.
Men rate the virtues of the heart at almost nothing, while they idolise endowments of body and intellect.
Men rattle their chains to show that they are free.
Men run away to other countries because they are not good in their own, and run back to their own because they pass for nothing in the new places.
Men say their pinnacles point to heaven. Why, so does every tree that buds, and every bird that rises as it sings. Men say their aisles are good for worship. Why, so is every mountain glen and rough seashore. But this they have of distinct and indisputable glory,--that their mighty walls were never raised, and never shall be, but by men who love and aid each other in their weakness.
Men seek within the short span of life to
satisfy a thousand desires, each of which alone is insatiable.
Men seem to be led by their noses, but in reality it is by their ears.
Men should be prized, not for their exemption from fault, but the size of those virtues they are possessed of.
Men should be what they seem; / Or those that be not, would they might seem none.
Men should keep their eyes wide open before marriage, and half-shut afterwards.
Men should not be told of the faults which
they have mended.
Men show their character in nothing more clearly than by what they think laughable.
Men, some to business, some to pleasure take; / But every woman is at heart a rake; / Men, some to quiet, some to public strife; / But every lady would be queen for life.
Men speak but little when vanity does not induce them to speak.
Men spend their lives in the service of their passions instead of employing their passions in the service of their lives.
Men still are what they always have been, a
medley
often obedient to reason, and oftener to passion; so have they come down the stream of time for six thousand years, and mostly in such shape as the moment has fashioned them.
Men that are ruined are ruined on the side of their natural propensities.
Men that hazard all / Do it in hope of fair advantages.
Men that make / Envy and crooked malice nourishment / Dare bite the best.
Men think highly of those who rise rapidly in the world; whereas nothing rises quicker than dust, straw, and feathers.
Men think they are quarrelling with one
another, and both sides feel that they are in the wrong.
Men think to mend their condition by a change of circumstances. They might as well hope to escape their shadows.
Men tire themselves in pursuit of rest.
Men trust rather to their eyes than to their ears; the effect of precepts is therefore slow and tedious, whilst that of examples is summary and effectual.
Men understand not what is among their hands; as calmness is the characteristic of strength, so the weightiest causes may be the most silent.
Men use, if they have an evil turn, to write it in marble, and whoso doth us a good turn we write it in dust.
Men, who are knaves individually, are in the mass very honourable people.
Men who begin by losing their independence will end by losing their energy.
Men who, being always bred in affluence,
see the world only on one side, are surely improper judges of human nature.
Men who earn nothing but compliments are not likely to be very diligent in so unprofitable a service.
Men who form their judgment upon sense often err.
Men who know the same things are not long the best company for each other.
Men who make money rarely saunter; men who save money rarely swagger.
Men who their duties know, / But know their
rights, and, knowing, dare maintain.
Men will always act according to their passions. Therefore the best government is that which inspires the nobler passions and destroys the meaner.
Men will blame themselves for the purpose of being praised.
Men will die for an opinion as soon as for anything else.
Men will face powder and steel, because they cannot face public opinion.
Men will forget what we suffer, and not what
we do.
Men will marry a fool that sings, sooner than one that has learned to scoff.
Men will wrangle for religion, write for it, fight for it, die for it--anything but live for it.
Men work themselves into atheistical judgments by atheistical practice.
Men would be angels, angels would be gods.
Men would not live long in society, were they
not the mutual dupes of each other.
Men's actions are not to be judged of at first sight.
Men's actions are too strong for them. Show me a man who has acted, and who has not been the victim and slave of his action.
Men's best successes come after their disappointments.
Men's evil manners live in brass; their virtues / We write in water.
Men's hearts ought not to be set against one
another, but set with one another, and all against the evil thing only.
Men's ignorance makes the priest's pot boil.
Men's muscles move better when their souls are making merry music.
Men's natures wrangle with inferior things, / Though great ones are their object.
Men's prosperity is in their own hands, and no forms of government are, in themselves, of the least use.
Men's souls 'twixt sorrow and love are cast.
Men's thoughts and opinions are, in a great degree, vassals of him who invents a new phrase or reapplies an old epithet.
Men's thoughts are much according to their inclinations; their discourses and speeches, according to their learning and infused opinions.
Men's vows are women's traitors.
Menace-moi de vivre et non pas de mourir
Ménage
Mendacem memorem esse oportet
Mendaces, ebriosi, verbosi
Mendaci homini, ne verum quidem dicenti credere solemus
Mendici, mimi, balatrones, et hoc genus omne
Mendico ne parentes quidem amici sunt
Mendings are honourable, rags are abominable.
Mens æqua rebus in arduis
Mens agitat molem
Mens bona regnum possidet
Mens conscia recti
Mens cujusque est quisque
Mens immota manet; lachrymæ volvuntur inanes
Mens interrita lethi
Mens invicta manet
Mens peccat, non corpus, et unde consilium
abfuit culpa abest
Mens sana in corpore sano
Mens sine pondere ludit
Mensa et toro
Menschenkenntniss ist Unglaube an Tugend und Redlichkeit
Menschlich ist es bloss zu strafen, / Aber
göttlich zu verzeihn
Mensque pati durum sustinet ægra nihil
Mensuraque juris / Vis erat
Mental courage, infinitely rarer than valour, presupposes the most eminent qualities.
Mental pleasures never cloy: unlike those of the body, they are increased by repetition, approved of by reflection, and strengthened by enjoyment.
Mental prayer
and excludes all religions, and only in a few God-favoured men permeates the whole course of life, develops itself in most men as only a blazing, beatific feeling of the moment, immediately after the vanishing of which the man, thrown in upon himself unsatisfied and unoccupied, lapses back into the most utter and absolute weariness.
Mentally and bodily endowed men are the
most modest, while, on the other hand, all who have some peculiar mental defect think a great deal more of themselves.
Mentis gratissimus error
Mentis penetralia
Menu
Menus plaisirs
Meo sum pauper in ære
Merces virtutis laus est
Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
Mercy is above this sceptred sway, / It is enthronéd in the hearts of kings, / It is an attribute to God himself; / And earthly power doth then show likest God's / When mercy seasons justice.
Mercy is not itself, that oft looks so; / Pardon
is still the nurse of second woe.
Mercy, misericordia, does not in the least mean forgiveness of sins, but pity of sorrows.
Mercy to him that shows it is the rule.
Mercy turns her back to the unmerciful.
Mercy's gate opens to those who knock.
Mere bashfulness without merit is awkward,
and merit without modesty insolent; but modest merit has a double claim to acceptance.
Mere family never made a man great. Thought and deed, not pedigree, are the passports to enduring fame.
Mere madness, to live like a wretch and die rich.
Mere pleasure ought not to be the prime motive of action.
Mere sensibility is not true taste, but sensibility to real excellence is.
Mere wishes are bony fishes.
Merit and good works is the end of man's motion, and conscience of the same is the accomplishment of man's rest.
Merit, however inconsiderable, should be sought for and rewarded.
Merit in appearance is oftener rewarded than merit itself.
Merit is never so conspicuous as when coupled with an obscure origin, just as the moon never appears so lustrous as when it emerges from a cloud.
Merit lives from man to man.
Merry be the first, / And merry be the last, / And merry be the first of August.
Merry larks are ploughmen's clocks.
Merx ultronea putret
Mésalliance
Messe tenus propria vive
Metaphysicians and philosophers are, on the whole, the greatest troubles the world has got to deal with.... Busy metaphysicians are always entangling good and active people, and weaving cobwebs among the finest wheels of the world's business, and are, as much as possible, by all prudent persons, to be brushed out of their way.
Metaphysics, with which physics cannot dispense, is that wisdom of thought which was before all physics, lives with it, and will endure after it.
Method is the very hinge of business.
Method will teach you to win time.
Methods are the masters of masters.
Methought I heard a voice cry, Sleep no more!
Métier d'auteur, métier d'oseur
Metiri se quemque suo modulo ac pede verum
est
Mettre les pieds dans le plat
Metuenda corolla draconis
Meum et tuum
Meus mihi, suus cuique est carus
Mezzo termine
Micat inter omnes
Mich dräng'st den Grundtext aufzuschlagen, / Mit redlichem Gefühl einmal / Das heilige Original / In mein geliebtes Deutsch zu übertragen
Mich hat mein Glaube nicht betrogen!
Mich plagen keine Scrupel noch Zweifel, / Fürchte mich weder vor Hölle noch Teufel
Mich schuf aus gröberm Stoffe die Natur, / Und zu der Erde zieht mich die Begierde
Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam, / Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home; / A charm from the skies seems to hallow us there, / Which, sought through the world, is ne'er met with elsewhere.
Midst the crowd, the hum, the shock of men, / To hear, to see, to feel, and to possess, / And roam along, the world's tired denizen, / With none who bless us, none whom we can bless; / ... This is to be alone; this, this is solitude!
Mieux nourri qu'instruit
Mieux serra
Mieux vaut glisser du pied que de la langue
Mieux vaut perdre la laine que la brebis
Mieux vaut un bon renom, que du bien plein la maison
Mieux vaut un "Tiens" que deux "Tu l'auras"
Mieux vaut une once de fortune qu'une livre
de sagesse
Mieux vaut voir un chien enragé, qu'un soleil chaud en Janvier
Might and right do differ frightfully from hour to hour; but give them centuries to try it in, they are found to be identical.
Mightier far / Than strength of nerve or sinew, or the sway / Of magic, potent over sun and star, / Is Love, though oft to agony distrest, / And though his favourite seat be feeble woman's breast.
Mightiest powers by deepest calms are fed, / And sleep, how oft, on things that gentlest be.
Mighty events turn on a straw; the crossing
of a brook decides the conquest of the world.
Migravit ab aure voluptas / Omnis
Mihi est propositum in taberna mori
Mihi forsan, tibi quod negarit, / Porriget hora
Mihi istic nec seritur nec metitur
Mihi res, non me rebus, subjungere conor
Mihi tarda fluunt ingrataque tempora
Mildness governs more than anger.
Militat omnis amans
Militiæ species amor est
Mille hominum species et rerum discolor usus; /
Velle suum cuique est, nec voto vivitur uno
Mille verisimili non fanno un vero
Millia frumenti tua triverit area centum, / Non tuus hinc capiet venter plus ac meus
Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth / Unseen, both when we wake and when we sleep.
Minatur innocentibus qui parcit nocentibus
Mind and body are intimately related; if the
former is joyful, the latter feels free and well; and many an evil flies before cheerfulness.
Mind and body--that beauteous couple--exercise much and variously, but at home, at home, indoors, and about things indoors; for God is there too.
Mind is stronger than matter; mind is the creator and shaper of matter; not brute force, but only persuasion and faith is the king of this world.
Mind is the great lever of all things; human thought is the process by which human ends are ultimately answered.
Mind is the partial side of men; the heart is everything.
Mind not high things, but condescend to men
of low estate.
Mind unemployed is mind unenjoyed.
Mind your P's and Q's.
Mind your work, and God will find your wages.
Minds are of celestial birth; / Make we then a heaven of earth.
Minds that have nothing to confer / Find little
to perceive.
Minds that never rest are subject to many digressions.
Mind the corner where life's road turns.
Mine honour my life is; both grow in one; / Take honour from me, and my life is done.
Minimæ vires frangere quassa valent
Minima de malis
Minister flicken am Staate, / Die Richter flicken am Rate, / Die Pfarrer an dem Gewissen, / Die Aerzte an Händen und Füszen! O Jobsen! was flickest denn du? / Weit besser! Gerissene Schuh!
Minor est quam servus, dominus qui servos timet
Minorities lead and save the world, and the world knows them not till long afterwards.
Minuentur atræ / Carmine curæ
Minuit præsentia famam
Minus afficit sensus fatigatio quam cogitatio
Minuti / Semper et infirmi est animi exiguique voluptas / Ultio
Minutiæ
Mir gäb' es keine gröss're Pein, / Wär' ich im Paradies allein
Mir wird bei meinem kritischen Bestreben / Doch oft um Kopf und Busen bang
Mira quædam in cognoscendo suavitas et delectatio
Mirabile dictu!
Mirabile visu!
Miracles are ceased, and therefore we must needs admit the means, how things are perfected.
Miracles do not serve to convert, but condemn.
Miramur ex intervallo fallentia
Miremur te non tua
Mirth is God's medicine.
Mirth is like a flash of lightning, that breaks through a gloom of clouds, and glitters for a moment; cheerfulness keeps up a kind of daylight in the mind, and fills it with a steady and perpetual serenity.
Mirth is short and transient, cheerfulness fixed and permanent.
Misce stultitiam consiliis brevem
Miscellaneous reading avoid.
Mischief, thou art afoot; / Take thou what
course thou wilt.
Mise en scène
Misera contribuens plebs!
Misera est magni custodia census
Misera est servitus ubi jus est aut vagum aut incognitum
Miserable beyond all names of wretchedness
is that unhappy pair who are doomed to reduce beforehand to the principles of abstract reason all the details of each domestic day.
Miseram pacem vel bello bene mutari
Misericordia Domini inter pontem et fontem
Miseros prudentia prima relinquit
Miserrima est fortuna quæ inimico caret
Miserum est aliorum incumbere famæ / Ne
collapsa ruant subductis tecta columnis
Misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows.
Misery and ruin to thousands are in the blast that announces the destructive demon
Misery doth part / The flux of company.
Misery is like love; to speak its language truly, the author must have felt it.
Misery is trodden down by many, / And, being
low, never relieved by any.
Misery that I miss is a new mercy.
Misfortune is never mournful to the soul that accepts it; for such do always see that every cloud is an angel's face.
Misfortune sprinkles ashes on the head of the man, but falls like dew on the head of the woman, and brings forth germs of strength of which she herself had no conscious possession.
Misfortune, when we look upon it with our eyes, is smaller than when our imagination sinks the evil down into the recesses of the soul.
Misfortunes come on wings and depart on foot.
Misfortunes have their dignity and their redeeming power.
Misfortunes never come single.
Misfortunes when asleep are not to be wakened.
Mislike me not for my complexion, / The shadow'd livery of the burnish'd sun, / To whom I am a neighbour and near bred.
Misreckoning is no payment.
Mist of words, / Like halos round the moon, though they enlarge / The seeming size of thoughts, make the light less / Doubly.
Mistake not, man; the devil never sleeps.
Mistrust the man who finds everything good, and the man who finds everything evil, and still more the man who is indifferent to everything.
Misunderstanding brings lies to town.
Misunderstanding goes on like a fallen stitch
in a stocking, which in the beginning might have been taken up with a needle.
Mit deinem Meister zu irren ist dein Gewinn
Mit dem Genius steht die Natur im ewigen Bunde! / Was der eine verspricht, leistet die andre gewiss
Mit dem Wissen wächst der Zweifel
Mit der Dummheit kämpfen Götter selbst vergebens
Mit Frauen soll man sich nie unterstehn zu scherzen
Mit fremdem Gut ist leicht ein Prasser sein
Mit Kleinen thut man kleine Thaten, / Mit Grossen wird der Kleine gross
Mit seltsamen Geberden / Giebt man sich
viele Pein; / Kein Mensch will etwas werden, / Ein jeder will schon was sein
Mit vier Strangschlägern zu fahren ist gefährlich, aber ich werde es versuchen
Mit Worten lässt sich trefflich streiten / Mit Worten ein System bereiten, / An Worten lässt sich trefflich glauben, / Von einem Wort lässt sich kein Iota rauben
Mit Worten nicht, mit Thaten lasst mich danken
Mitgefühl erweckt Vertrauen; / Und Vertrauen ist der Schlüssel / Der des Herzens Pforte öffnet
Mittagsschlaf ist ein brennend Licht am Tage
Mitte hanc de pectore curam
Mittimus
Mobilis et varia est ferme natura malorum
Mobilitate viget, viresque acquirit eundo
Mobilium turba Quiritium
Mock me not with the name of free, when you have but knit up my chains into ornamental festoons.
Mockery is the fume of little hearts.
Moderari animo et orationi, cum sis iratus, non mediocris ingenii est
Moderata durant
Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead,
excessive grief the enemy to the living.
Moderate riches will carry you; if you have more, you must carry them.
Moderation and judgment are, for most purposes, more than the flash and the glitter even of genius.
Moderation is good, but moderation alone is no virtue
Moderation is the inseparable companion of wisdom, but with genius it has not even a nodding acquaintance.
Moderation is the silken string running through
the pearl chain of all virtues.
Moderation is the virtue best adapted to the dawn of prosperity.
Modern education has devoted itself to the teaching of impudence, and then we complain we can no more manage our mobs.
Modern education too often covers the fingers with rings, and at the same time cuts the sinews at the wrists.
Modern poets put a great deal of water in their ink.
Modern Protestantism sees in the cross, not a
furca to which it is to be nailed, but a raft on which it, and all its valuable properties, are to be floated into Paradise.
Modern revolution has nothing grand about it; it is merely the resolution of society into its component atoms.
Modern science gives lectures on botany, to show there is no such thing as a flower; on humanity, to show there is no such thing as a man; and on theology, to show there is no such thing as a God. No such thing as a man, but only a mechanism. No such thing as a God, but only a series of forces.
Modest demeanour's the jewel of a'!
Modest dogs miss much meat.
Modest doubt is called / The beacon of the
wise, the tent that searches / To the bottom of the worst.
Modest expression is a beautiful setting to the diamond of talent and genius.
Modest humility is beauty's crown, for the beautiful is a hidden thing, and shrinks from its own power.
Modeste tamen et circumspecto judicio de tantis viris pronunciandum est, ne, quod plerisque accidit, damnent quæ non intelligunt
Modesty and presumption are moral things of so spiritual a nature, that they have little to do with the body.
Modesty is a quality in a lover more praised
by the women than liked.
Modesty is a very good thing, but a man in this country may get on very well without it.
Modesty is so pleased with other people's doings that she has no leisure to lament her own.
Modesty is the beauty of women.
Modesty is the colour of virtue.
Modesty is the sweet song-bird which no open
cage-door can tempt to flight.
Modesty is to merit what the shadows are to the figures on a picture; it imparts to it force and relief.
Modesty ruins all that bring it to court.
Modesty seldom resides in a breast that is not enriched with nobler virtues.
Modesty when she goes, is gone for ever.
Modo et forma
Modo me Thebis, modo ponit Athenis
Modo vir, modo femina
Modus operandi
Mögt ihr Stück für Stück bewitzeln, / Doch das Ganze zieht euch an
Moi, moi, dis je, et c'est assez
Moins on pense plus on parle
Moles and misers live in their graves.
Molesta et importuna salutantium frequentia
Molle meum levibus cor est violabile telis
Mollis educatio nervos omnes et mentis et
corporis frangit
Mollissima corda / Humano generi dare se natura fatetur, / Quæ lachrymas dedit: hæc nostri pars optima sensus
Mollissima tempora fandi
Molliter austerum studio fallente laborem
Molliter ossa cubent
Momento mare vertitur; / Eodem die ubi
luserunt, navigia sorbentur
Mon âme a son secret, ma vie a son mystère
Mon cœur aux dames, / Ma vie au roi, / A Dieu mon âme, / L'honneur pour moi
Mon Dieu est ma roche
Mon frère a mis son bonnet de travers
Monarchy is a merchantman, which sails well,
but will sometimes strike on a rock and go to the bottom; whilst a republic is a raft, which would never sink, but then your feet are always in water.
Monday is the key of the week.
Monday religion is better than Sunday profession.
Mone sale
Money answers everything, / Save a guilty conscience sting.
Money begets money.
Money borrowed is soon sorrowed.
Money calls, but does not stay: / It is round and rolls away.
Money is a bottomless sea, in which honour, conscience, and truth may be drowned.
Money is a good servant, but a dangerous master.
Money is human happiness in the abstract;
he, then, who is no longer capable of enjoying human happiness in the concrete, devotes his heart entirely to money.
Money is like an icicle, soon found at certain seasons, and soon melted under other circumstances.
Money is not required to buy one necessity of the soul.
Money is the fruit of evil as often as the root of it.
Money is the god of our time, and Rothschild is his prophet.
Money is the most envied, but the least enjoyed;
health is the most enjoyed, but the least envied.
Money is the ruin of many.
Money is the sinew of love as well as of war.
Money, like manure, does no good till it is spread.
Money makes the mare to go.
Money masters all things.
Money never made a man happy yet, nor will it. There is nothing in its nature to produce happiness. The more a man has, the more he wants.
Money often costs too much.
Money often unmakes the men who make it.
Money refused loses its brightness.
Money spent on the brain is never spent in
vain.
Moniti, meliora sequamur
Monkeys, as soon as they have brought forth their young, keep their eyes fastened on them, and never weary of admiring their beauty; so amorous is Nature of whatever she produces.
Monstro quod ipse tibi possis dare: semita certe / Tranquillæ per virtutem patet unica vitæ
Monstrum horrendum, informe, ingens, cui lumen ademptum
Monstrum nulla virtute redemptum / A vitiis
Mont de piété
Montes auri pollicens
Montesquieu, with his cause-and-effect philosophy, is but a clever infant spelling letters from a hieroglyphical prophetic Book, the lexicon of which lies in eternity, in Heaven.
Monuments, like men, submit to fate.
Monuments themselves memorials need.
Mony an honest man needs that hasna the
face to seek it.
Mony ane speirs the gate
they ken fu' weel.
Mony kinsfolk, but few freends.
Moonlight is sculpture.
Moping melancholy.
Mora omnis odio est, sed facit sapientiam
Moral culture must begin with a change
in the way of thinking, and with the founding of a character.
Moral education begins in making the creature to be educated clean and obedient; and it is summed up when the creature has been made to do its work with delight, and thoroughly.
Moral inability aggravates our guilt.
Moral prejudices are the stopgaps of virtue; and, as is the case with other stopgaps, it is often more difficult to get either out or in through them than through any other part of the fence.
Moral qualities rule the world, but at short
distances the senses are despotic.
Morality is a curb, not a spur.
Morality is but the vestibule of religion.
Morality sticks faster when presented in brief sayings than when presented in long discourses.
Morals are generated as the atmosphere is. 'Tis a secret the genesis of either; but the springs of justice and courage do not fail any more than salt or sulphur springs.
Morceau
Morceau d'ensemble
More are drowned in the beaker than in the sea.
More are made good by exercitation than by nature.
More credit may be thrown down in a moment than can be built up in an age.
More hearts pine away in secret anguish for
unkindness from those who should be their comforters than for any other calamity in life.
More helpful than all wisdom is one draught of simple human pity that will not forsake us.
More is got from one book on which the thought settles for a definite end in knowledge, than from libraries skimmed over by a wandering eye. A cottage flower gives honey to the bee, a king's garden none to the butterfly.
More knave than fool.
More light, more life, more love.
More majorum
More matter with less art.
More meat and less mustard.
More pleased we are to see a river lead / His gentle streams along a flowery mead, / Than from high banks to hear loud torrents roar, / With foamy waters on a muddy shore.
More potatoes and fewer potations.
More servants wait on man / Than he'll take
notice of.
More sinn'd against than sinning.
More springs up in the garden than the gardener sows there.
More suo
More than all things, avoid fault-finding and a habit of criticism.
More than kisses letters mingle souls.
More than we use is more than we want.
More things are wrought by prayer / Than this world dreams of.
More water glideth by the mill / Than wots the miller of.
Mores amici noveris, non oderis
Mores multorum vidit
Morgen können wir's nicht mehr, / Darum lasst uns heute leben!
Morgen, morgen, nur nicht heute! / Sprechen immer träge Leute
Morgenstunde hat Gold im Munde
Moriamur, et in media arma ruamus
Moribus antiquis res stat Romana virisque
Moribus et forma conciliandus amor
Morituri morituros salutant
Morose thoughts one should never send to a distance.
Moroseness is the evening of turbulence.
Mors et fugacem persequitur virum
Mors ipsa refugit sæpe virum!
Mors janua vitæ
Mors laborum ac miseriarum quies est!
Mors potius macula
Mors sola fatetur / Quantula sint hominum
corpuscula
Mors ultima linea rerum est
Mortales inimicitias, sempiternas amicitias
Mortalia acta nunquam Deos fallunt
Mortalia facta peribunt, / Nedum sermonum stet honos et gratia vivax
Mortality is beset on every side with crosses, and exposed to suffering every moment.
Mortalium rerum misera beatitudo
Morte carent animæ, semperque priore relicta / Sede novis domibus vivunt habitantque receptæ
Mortem effugere nemo potest!
Mortuo leoni et lepores insultant
Mos pro lege
Moses and Mahomet were not men of speculation,
but men of action; and it is the stress they laid upon the latter that has given them the power they wield over the destinies of mankind.
Most authors steal their works, or buy.
Most dangerous / Is that temptation that doth goad us on / To sin in loving virtue.
Most felt, least said.
Most joyful let the poet be; / It is through him that all men see.
Most men and most women are merely one
couple more.
Most men do not know what is in them till they receive the summons from their fellows; their hearts die within them, sleep settles upon them--the lethargy of the world's miasmata; there is nothing for which they are so thankful as for that cry, "Awake, thou that sleepest."
Most men forget God all day, and ask Him to remember them at night.
Most men I ask little from; I try to render them much, and to expect nothing in return, and I get very well out of the bargain.
Most men make the voyage of life as if they carried sealed orders which they were not to open till they were fairly in mid-ocean.
Most men never reach the glorious epoch, that
middle stage between despair and deification, in which the comprehensible appears to us common and insipid.
Most men of action incline to fatalism, and most men of thought believe in Providence.
Most men take no notice of what is plain, as if that were of no use; but puzzle their thoughts to be themselves in those vast depths and abysses which no human understanding can fathom.
Most men think indistinctly, and therefore cannot speak with exactness.
Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful man who can find?
Most men write now as if they expected that
their works should live no more than a month.
Most natures are insolvent; cannot satisfy their own wants, have an ambition out of all proportion to their practical force, and so do lean and beg day and night continually.
Most of our evils come from our vices.
Most of the appearing mirth in the world is not mirth, but art; the wounded spirit is not seen, but walks under a disguise.
Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts of life, are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances, to the elevation of mankind.
Most of the mischief in the world would never
happen if men would only be content to sit still in their parlours.
Most people think now-a-days the only hopeful way of serving your neighbour is to make a profit out of him; whereas, in my opinion, the hopefulest way of serving him is to let him make a profit out of me.
Most people, when they come to you for advice, come to have their own opinions strengthened, not corrected.
Most people who ask advice of others have already resolved to act as it pleases them.
Most potent, effectual for all work whatsoever, is wise planning, firm combining and commanding among men.
Most powerful is he who has himself in his
power.
Most religion-mongers have bated their paradises with a bit of toasted cheese. They have tempted the body with large promises of possessions in their transmortal El Dorado.
Most strange that men should fear, / Seeing that death, a necessary end, / Will come when it will come.
Most subject is the fattest soil to weeds.
Most terrors are but spectral illusions.
Most things have two handles, and a wise
man takes hold of the best.
Most women have no characters at all.
Most wretched men / Are cradled into poetry by wrong; / They learn in suffering what they teach in song.
Mot à mot
Mot à mot on fait les gros livres
Mot d'ordre
Mot pour rire
Mother, a maiden is a tender thing, / And best by her that bore her understood.
Mother's darlings are but milksop heroes.
Mother's love is the cream of love.
Mother's truth keeps constant youth.
Motives are better than actions.
Motives are symptoms of weakness, and supplements for the deficient energy of the living principle, the law within us.
Motley's the only wear.
Mots d'usage
Motu proprio
Mountains interposed / Make enemies of nations, who had else / Like kindred drops been mingled into one.
Mountains never shake hands. Their roots may touch; they may keep company some way up; but at length they part company, and rise into individual, isolated peaks. So it is with great men.
Mourning only lasts till morning with the children of the morning.
Mourning tendeth to mending.
Movet cornicula risum / Furtivis nudata coloribus
Moving accidents by flood and field.
Mrs. Chatterbox is the mother of mischief.
Much bruit, little fruit.
Much corn lies under the straw that is not seen.
Much debating goes on about the good that
has been done and the harm by the free circulation of the Bible. To me this is clear: it will do harm, as it has done, if used dogmatically and fancifully; and do good, as it has done, if used didactically and feelingly.
Much exists under our very noses which has no name, and can get none.
Much food is in the tillage of the poor.
Much in the world may be done by severity, more by love, but most of all by discernment and impartial justice.
Much learning is a weariness of the flesh.
Much learning shows how little mortals know;
much wealth, how little worldlings can enjoy.
Much lies among us convulsively, nay, desperately, struggling to be born.
Much meat, much disease.
Much might be said on both sides.
Much of the good or evil that befalls persons arises from the well or ill managing of their conversation.
Much of the pleasure, and all the benefit of
conversation, depends upon our own opinion of the speaker's veracity.
Much of this world's wisdom is still acquired by necromancy--by consulting the oracular dead.
Much of what is great, and to all men beneficial, has been wrought by those who neither intended nor knew the good they did; and many mighty harmonies have been discoursed by instruments that had been dumb and discordant but that God knew their stops.

Much reading makes one haughty and pedantic; wise, sociable, and helpful.
Much religion, but no goodness.
Much rust needs a rough file.
 (_Missver
Much there is that appears unequal in our life, yet the balance is soon and unexpectedly restored. In eternal alternation a weal counterbalances the woe, and swift sorrows our joys. Nothing is constant. Many an roll on, is gradually and imperceptibly dissolved in harmony. And ah! love knows how to reconcile the greatest discrepancy and unite earth with heaven.
Mucho sabe la zorra, pero mas el que la toma
Mud chokes no eels.
Mudar costumbre a par de muerte
Muddy spring, muddy stream.
Mugitus labyrinthi
Mules deliver great discourses because their ancestors were horses.
Mulier cupido quod dicit amanti, / In vento et rapida scribere oportet aqua
Mulier profecto nata est ex ipsa mora
Mulier quæ sola cogitat male cogitat
Mulier recte olet ubi nihil olet
Multa cadunt inter calicem supremaque labra
Multa dies, variusque labor mutabilis ævi, / Retulit in melius
Multa docet fames
Multa fero ut placeam genus irritabile vatum
Multa ferunt anni venientes commoda secum; / Multa recedentes adimunt
Multa gemens
Multa me docuit usus, magister egregius
Multa novit vulpis, sed felis unam magnum
Multa paucis
Multa petentibus / Desunt multa
Multa quidem scripsi; sed quæ vitiosa putavi, / Emendaturis ignibus ipse dedi
Multa renascentur quæ jam cecidere, cadentque / Quæ nunc sunt in honore vocabula, si volet usus, / Quem penes arbitrium est, et jus, et norma loquendi
Multa rogant utenda dari; data reddere nolunt
Multa senem circumveniunt incommoda
Multa tacere loquive paratas
Multa tulit, fecitque puer, sudavit et alsit
Multæ manus onus levius faciunt
Multæ regum aures et oculi
Multæ terricolis linguæ, cœlestibus una
Multarum palmarum causidicus
Multas amicitias silentium diremit
Multi adorantur in ara qui cremantur in igne
Multi / Committunt eadem diverso crimina fato, / Ille crucem sceleris pretium tulit, hic diadema
Multi mortales, dediti ventri atque somno, indocti incultique vitam sicuti peregrinantes transiere; quibus profecto contra naturam corpus voluptati, anima oneri
Multi multa, nemo omnia novit
Multi nil rectum nisi quod placuit sibi ducunt
Multi te oderint si teipsum ames
Multis ille bonis flebilis occidit / Nulli flebilior quam tibi
Multis minatur, qui uni facit injuriam
Multis parasse divitias non finis miseriarum fuit, sed mutatio; non est in rebus vitium sed in animo
Multis terribilis caveto multos
Multitudinem decem faciunt
Multo plures satietas quam fames perdidit viros
Multos castra juvant, et lituo tubæ / Permistus sonitus, bellaque matribus / Detestata
Multos in summa pericula misit / Venturi timor ipse mali
Multos ingratos invenimus, plures facimus
Multos qui conflictari adversis videantur, beatos; ac plerosque, quanquam magnas per opes, miserrimos
Multum abludit imago
Multum demissus homo
Multum in parvo
Multum, non multa
Multum sapit qui non diu desipit
Mundæque parvo sub lare pauperum / Cœnæ, sine aulæis et ostro, / Sollicitam explicuere frontem
Munditiæ, et ornatus, et cultus hæc feminarum insignia sunt, his gaudent et gloriantur
Munditiis capimur
Mundus est Dei viva statua!
Mundus universus exercet histrionem
Mundus vult decipi; ergo decipiatur
Munera accipit frequens, remittit nunquam
Munera, crede mihi, capiunt hominesque deosque; / Placatur donis Jupiter ipse datis!
Munificence is not quantity, but quality.
Munit hæc, et altera vincit
Munus Apolline dignum
Munus ornare verbis
Murder, though it have no tongue, will speak / With most miraculous organ.
Murder will out.
Muras æneus conscientia sana
Mus in pice
Mus non uni fidit antro
Music fills up the present moment more decisively than anything else, whether it awakens thought or summons to action.
Music hath charms to soothe the savage
breast.
 (_Neuh
Music in the best sense has little need of it is, the more one is accustomed to it, the greater is the effect it produces.
Music, in the works of its greatest masters, is more marvellous, more mysterious, than poetry.
Music is a kind of inarticulate unfathomable speech, which leads us to the edge of the infinite, and lets us for moments gaze that.
Music is a language directed to the passions; but the rudest passions put on a new nature and become pleasing in harmony.
Music is a prophecy of what life is to be, the rainbow of promise translated out of seeing into hearing.
Music is an invisible dance, as dancing is a silent music.
Music is but wild sounds civilised into time and tune.
Music is our fourth great material want--first
food, then raiment, then shelter, then music.
Music is the art of the prophets, the only art which can calm the agitations of the soul.
Music is the crystallisation of sound.
Music is the mediator between the spiritual and the sensual life.
Music is the most immediate means possessed by the will for the manifestation of its inner impulses.
Music is the only one of the fine arts in which
not only man, but all other animals, have a common property.
Music is the only sensual gratification which mankind may indulge in to excess without injury to their moral and religious feelings.
Music is the poor man's Parnassus.
Music is the true universal speech of mankind.
Music makes people milder and gentler, more moral and more reasonable.
Music, of all the arts, has the greatest influence
over the passions, and the legislator ought to give it the greatest encouragement.
Music of the spheres.
Music oft hath such a charm / To make bad good, and good provoke to harm.
Music, once admitted into the soul, becomes a sort of spirit, and never dies.
Music so softens and disarms the mind, / That not an arrow does resistance find.
Music stands in a much closer connection with
pure sensation than any of the other arts.
Music washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.
Music, when healthy, is the teacher of perfect order; and also when depraved, the teacher of perfect disorder.
Music will not cure the toothache.
Music wraps us in melancholy, and elevates in joy.
Musik ist der Schlüssel vom weiblichen Herzen
Musik ist die wahre allgemeine Menschensprache
Muss ist eine harte Nuss
Müsset im Naturbetrachen / Immer eins wie alles achten; / Nichts ist drinnen, nichts ist draussen, / Denn was innen, das ist aussen. / So ergreifet ohne Säumness / Heilig öffentlich Geheimniss
Müssiggang ist aller Laster Anfang
Must is a hard nut to crack, but it has a sweet
kernel.
"Must" is hard, but by "must" alone can man show what his inward condition is. Any one can live unrestrainedly.
Must not a great history be always an epic?
Mutability is the badge of infirmity.
Mutare vel timere sperno
Mutatis mutandis
Mutato nomine, de te / Fabula narratur
Mutum est pictura poema
My alms-people are to be the ablest bodied I can find, the ablest minded I can make, and every day will be a duty ... shall stand with tools at work, mattock or flail, axe or hammer.
My ancient but ignoble blood / Has crept through scoundrels ever since the Flood.
My better half.
My bounty is as boundless as the sea, / My love as deep; the more I give to thee, / The more I have, for both are infinite.
My dame fed her hens on thanks, but they laid no eggs.
My days are in the yellow leaf; / The flowers and fruits of love are gone; / The worm, the canker, and the grief / Are mine alone.
"My family begins with me, yours ends with you."
My fate cries out, / And makes each petty
artery in this body / As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
My first and last secret of Art is to get a thorough intelligence of the fact to be painted, represented, or, in whatever way, set forth--the fact deep as Hades, high as heaven, and written so, as to the visual face of it on this poor earth.
My grief lies onward, and my joy behind.
"My hand," said Napoleon, "is immediately connected with my head," but the sacred courage is connected with the heart.
My heart leaps up when I behold / A rainbow in the sky: / So was it when my life began, / So is it now I am a man; / So be it when I shall grow old, / Or let me die.
My heart is true as steel.
My heart resembles the ocean; has storm, and ebb, and flow; / And many a beautiful pearl / Lies hid in its depths below.
My heart's in the Highlands, my heart is not here.
My highest wish is to find within the God whom I find everywhere without.
My house is my castle.
My house, my house, though thou art small, / Thou art to me the Escurial.
"My ideal of a society is one in which I would
be guillotined as a Conservative."
My inheritance how wide and fair! / Time is my seed-field, to Time I'm heir.
My joy in friends, those sacred people, is my consolation.
My joy is death;--/ Death, at whose name I oft have been afeared, / Because I wish'd this world's eternity.
My mind can take no hold on the present world, nor rest in it a moment, but my whole nature rushes onward with irresistible force towards a future and better state of being.
My mind to me a kingdom is, / Such perfect joy
therein I find.
My name is Norval; on the Grampian hills my father feeds his flock.
My notions of life are much the same as they are about travelling; there is a good deal of amusement on the road, but, after all, one wants to be at rest.
My offence is rank; it smells to heaven.
My only books / Were woman's looks,--/ And folly's all they've taught me.
My opinion, my conviction, gains infinitely in
strength and sureness the moment a second mind has adopted it.
My pen was never dipped in gall.
My perception of a fact is as much a fact as the sun.
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time, / And makes as healthful music.
My purposes lie in the churchyard.
My rigour relents: I pardon something to the
spirit of liberty.
My son, be not now negligent, for the Lord hath chosen thee to stand before Him.
My son is my son till he have got him a wife, / But my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
My soul, what's lighter than a feather? Wind. / Than wind? The fire. And what than fire? The mind. / What's lighter than the mind? A thought. Than thought? / This bubble world. What than this bubble? Nought.
My strength is as the strength of ten, because my heart is pure.
My way of life / Is fall'n into the sere, the yellow
leaf; / And that which should accompany old age, / As honour, love, obedience, troops of friends, / I must not look to have; but in their stead, / Curses, not loud, but deep, mouth-honour, breath / Which the poor heart would fain deny, but dare not.
My words fly up, my thoughts remain below; /
Words, without thoughts, never to heaven go.
My yoke is easy and my burden light.
Myn leeren is spelen, myn spelen is leeren
Mysteries are due to secrecy.
Mysteries which must explain themselves are
not worth the loss of time which a conjecture about them takes up.
Mysterious to all thought, / A mother's prime of bliss, / When to her eager lips is brought / Her infant's thrilling kiss.
Mystery magnifies danger, as a fog the sun; the hand that warned Belshazzar derived its horrifying influence from the want of a body.
Mystic, deep as the world's centre, are the roots a man has struck into his native soil; no tree that grows is rooted so.
Mysticism consists in the mistake of an accidental and individual symbol for a universal one.
Mythology is not religion. It may rather be
regarded as the ancient substitute, the poetical counterpart, for dogmatic theology.
N'aboyez pas à la lune
N'est on jamais tyran qu'avec un diadème?
N'importe
N'oubliez
Naboth was right to hold on to his home.
There were garnered memories that all the wealth of Ahab could not buy.
Nace en la huerta lo que no siembra el hortelano
Nach Canossa gehen wir nicht
Nach Ehre geizt die Jugend; / Lass dich den Ehrgeiz nicht verführen
Nach Freiheit strebt der Mann, das Weib nach Sitte
Nach Golde drängt, / Am Golde hängt, / Doch
alles. Ach, wir Armen!
Nach Gottes Wesenheit ist gar nicht dein Beruf zu forschen; forsche du nach Wesen, die er schuf
Nacheifern ist beneiden
Nachgeben stillt allen Krieg
Nacht muss es sein, wo Friedlands Sterne strahlen
Næ amicum castigare ob meritam noxiam / Immune est facinus
Nae butter 'll stick to my bread,
Nae freen' like the penny.
Nae fules like auld fules.
Nae man can be happy without a friend, nor
be sure of him till he's unhappy.
Nae man can live at peace unless his neighbours let him.
Nae man can mak' his ain hap
Nae man can tether time or tide.
Nae man can thrive unless his wife will let him.
Nae man has a tack
Nae man is wise at a' times, nor wise on a' things.
Nae treasures nor pleasures / Could mak' us happy lang, / The heart aye's the part aye / That mak's us right or wrang.
Nae wonder ye're auld like; ilka thing fashes

Naething is a man's truly but what he cometh by duly.
Naething is got without pains but an ill name.
Naething is got without pains except dirt and long nails.
Naething is ill said if it's no ill ta'en.
Nager entre deux eaux
Naiv muss jedes wahre Genie sein, oder es ist keines
Naked truth is out of place before the eyes of
the profane vulgar; it can only make its appearance thickly veiled.
Nakedness is uncomely, as well in mind as body; and it addeth no small reverence to men's manners and actions if they be not altogether open.
Nam de mille fabæ modiis dum surripis unum, / Damnum est, non facinus mihi pacto lenius isto
Nam dives qui fieri vult, / Et cito vult fieri
Nam ego illum periisse duco, cui quidem periit pudor
Nam et majorum instituta tueri, sacris cerimoniisque
retinendis, sapientis est
Nam neque divitibus contingunt gaudia solis, / Nec vixit male qui natus moriensque fefellit
Nam nunc mores nihil faciunt quod licet, nisi quod lubet
Nam pro jucundis aptissima quæque dabunt Di. / Carior est illis homo quam sibi
Nam quæ inscitia est adversum stimulum calces
Nam quum magna malæ superest audacia
causæ, / Creditur a multis fiducia
Nam scelus intra se tacitum qui cogitat ullum / Facti crimen habet
Nam tua res agitur, paries cum proximus ardet!
Nam vitiis nemo sine nascitur; optimus ille est, / Qui minimis urgetur
Namen nennen dich nicht! Dich bilden Griffel und Pinsel sterblicher Künstler nicht nach!
Names alter, things never alter.
Nane are so weel but they hope to be better.
Napoleon affords us an example of the danger of elevating one's self to the Absolute, and sacrificing everything to the carrying out of an idea.
Napoleon, for the sake of a great name, broke in pieces almost half a world.
Narrative is linear, but Action, having breadth and depth as well as length, is solid.
Narratur et prisci Catonis / Sæpe mero caluisse
virtus
Nascentes morimur, finisque ab origine pendet
Nascimur poetæ, fimus oratores
Natales grate numeras? ignoscis amicis? / Lenior et melior fis accedente senecta?
Natio comœda est
National character varies as it fades under invasion
or corruption; but if ever it glows again into a new life, that life must be tempered by the earth and sky of the country itself.
National enthusiasm is the great nursery of genius.
National suffering is, if thou wilt understand the words, verily a judgment of God; it has ever been preceded by national crime.
Nations and empires flourish and decay, / By turns command, and in their turn obey.
Nations and men are only the best when they are the gladdest, and deserve heaven when they enjoy it.
Nations are only transitional forms of humanity; they must undergo obliteration, as do the transitional forms offered by the animal series. There is no more an immortality for them than there is an immobility for an embryo or any one of the manifold forms passed through in its progress of development.
Nations, like individuals, are born, proceed through a predestined growth, and die. One comes to its end at an early period and in an untimely way; another, not until it has gained maturity. One is cut off by feebleness in its infancy, another is destroyed by civil disease, another commits political suicide, another lingers in old age. But for every one there is an orderly way of progress to its final term, whatever that term may be.
Natur und Kunst, sie scheinen sich zu fliehen, / Und haben sich, eh' man es denkt, gefunden
Natura beatis / Omnibus esse dedit, si quis cognoverit uti
Natura il fece, e poi roppe la stampa
Natura ipsa valere, et mentis viribus excitari, et quasi quodam divino spiritu afflari
Natura naturans
Natura naturata
Natura nihil agit frustra
Natura non facit saltus
Natura, quam te colimus inviti quoque
Natural abilities are like natural plants, that need pruning by study; and studies themselves do give forth directions too much at large, except they be bounded in by experience.
Natural abilities can almost make up for the want of every kind of cultivation, but no cultivation for want of natural abilities.
Natural knowledge is come at by the continuance and progress of learning and of liberty, and by particular persons attending to, comparing, and pursuing intimations scattered up and down it, which are overlooked and disregarded by the generality of the world.
Natural objects always did and do weaken,
deaden, and obliterate imagination in me.
Natural selection is the principle by which each slight variation, if useful, is preserved.
Naturalia non sunt turpia
Naturam expellas furca, tamen usque recurret
Nature abhors a vacuum.
Nature admits no lie.
Nature acts towards us like an Oriental potentate with Mamelukes under him, whom he employs for some mysterious purpose, but to whom he never shows himself in person.
Nature alone is antique, and the oldest art a mushroom.
Nature alone is permanent.
Nature alone knows what she means.
Nature always leaps to the surface, and manages
to show what she is.
Nature always speaks of spirit.
Nature always wears the colours of the spirit. To a man labouring under calamity the heat of his own fire hath sadness in it.
Nature and art are too grand to go forth in pursuit of aims; nor is it necessary that they should, for there are relations everywhere, and relations constitute life.
Nature and books belong to the eyes that see them. It depends on the mood of the man whether he shall see the sunset or the fine poem.
Nature and Heaven command you, at your
peril, to discern worth from unworth in everything, and most of all in man.
Nature and love cannot be concealed.
Nature and Nature's laws lay hid in night; / God said, "Let Newton be!" and all was light.
Nature and truth, though never so low or vulgar, are yet pleasing when openly and artlessly represented.
Nature builds upon a false bottom, seeks herself what she values in others, and is oftentimes deceived and disappointed. Grace reposes her whole hope and love in God, and is never mistaken, never deluded by false expectations.
Nature cannot be surprised in undress. Beauty
breaks in everywhere.
Nature cannot but always act rightly, quite unconcerned as to what may be the consequences.
Nature counts nothing that she meets with base, / But lives and loves in every place.
Nature, crescent, does not grow alone / In thews and bulk; but, as this temple waxes, / The inward service of the mind and soul / Grows wide withal.
Nature does more than supply materials; she also supplies powers.
Nature does not cocker us; we are children,
not pets; she is not fond; everything is dealt to us without fear or favour, after severe, universal laws.
Nature does not like to be observed, and likes that we should be her fools and playmates.
Nature does not make all great men, more than all other men, in the self-same mould.
Nature draws with greater force than seven oxen.
Nature ever provides for her own exigencies.
Nature fashions no creature without implanting in it the strength needful for its action and duration.
Nature forces on our heart a Creator; history, a Providence.
Nature gives healthy children much; how much! Wise education is a wise unfolding of this; often it unfolds itself better of its own accord.
Nature gives you the impression as if there were nothing contradictory in the world; and yet, when you return back to the dwelling-place of man, be it lofty or low, wide or narrow, there is ever somewhat to contend with, to battle with, to smooth and put to rights.
Nature glories in death more than in life. The
month of departure is more beautiful than the month of coming.... Every green thing loves to die in bright colours.
Nature goes her own way; and all that to us seems an exception, is really according to order.
Nature had made occupation a necessity; society makes it a duty; habit may make it a pleasure.
Nature has directly formed woman to be a mother, only indirectly to be a wife; man, on the contrary, is rather made to be a husband than a father.
Nature has given to each one all that as a man he needs, which it is the business of education to develop, if, as most frequently happens, it does not develop better of itself.
Nature has lent us tears--the cry of suffering
when the man at last can bear it no longer.
Nature has made man's breast no windows / To publish what he does within doors, / Nor what dark secrets there inhabit, / Unless his own rash folly blab it.
Nature has made provision for all her children; the meanest is not hindered in its existence even by that of the most excellent.
Nature has no feeling; the sun gives his light to good and bad alike, and moon and stars shine out for the worst of men as for the best.
Nature has no moods; they belong to man alone.
Nature has planted passions in the heart of
man for the wisest purposes both of religion and life.
Nature has sometimes made a fool, but a coxcomb is always of man's own making.
Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time. / Some that will evermore peep through their eyes / And laugh like parrots at a bagpiper; / And other of such vinegar aspect / That they'll not show their teeth in way of smile, / Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable.
Nature hath made nothing so base but can / Read some instruction to the wisest man.
Nature here shows art, / That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart.
Nature holds an immense uncollected debt
over every man's head.
Nature in women is so nearly allied to art.
Nature in you stands on the very verge / Of her confine.
Nature is a friend to truth.
Nature is a frugal mother, and never gives without measure.
Nature is a mutable cloud, which is always
and never the same.
Nature is a Sibyl, who testifies beforehand to what has been determined from all eternity, and was not to be realised till late in time.
Nature is a vast trope, and all particular natures are tropes.
Nature is always kind enough to give even her clouds a humorous lining.
Nature is always lavish, even prodigal.
Nature is always like herself.
Nature is always mysterious.
 (_am gründlichsten_
Nature is always right, and most profoundly least comprehend her.
Nature is an Æolian harp, a musical instrument whose tones are the re-echo of higher strings within us.
Nature is avariciously frugal; in matter it allows no atom to elude her grasp; in mind no thought or feeling to perish. It gathers up the fragments that nothing be lost.
Nature is beyond all teaching.
Nature is but a name for an effect whose cause is God.
Nature is commanded by obeying her.
Nature is content with little, grace with less, but lust with nothing.
Nature is despotic, and will not be fooled or abated of any jot of her authority by the pertest of her sons.
Nature is full of freaks, and now puts an old
head on young shoulders, and then a young heart beating under fourscore winters.
Nature is good, but intellect is better, as the lawgiver is before the law-receiver.
Nature is good, but she is not the best.
Nature is indeed adequate to Fear, but to Reverence not adequate.
Nature is just towards men. It recompenses them for their sufferings; it renders them laborious, because to the greatest toils it attaches the greatest rewards.
Nature is no spendthrift, but takes the shortest
way to her ends.
Nature is not an Aggregate but a Whole.
Nature is not fixed, but fluid; spirit alters, moulds, makes it.
Nature is rich; those two eggs you ate to breakfast this morning might, if hatched, have peopled the world with poultry.
Nature is sometimes subdued, but seldom extinguished.
Nature is still the grand agent in making
poets.
Nature is the art of God.
Nature is the best posture-master.
Nature is the immense shadow of man.
Nature is the living, visible garment of God.
Nature is the only book that teems with meaning on every page.
Nature knows how to convert evil to good; Nature utilises misers, fanatics, showmen, egotists to accomplish her ends; but we must not think better of the foible for that.
Nature knows no equality; her sovereign
law is subordination and dependence.
Nature knows no pause in progress and development, and attaches her curse on all inaction.
Nature listening stood whilst Shakespeare play'd, / And wonder'd at the work herself had made.
Nature made every fop to plague his brother, / Just as one beauty mortifies another.
Nature makes us vagabonds, the world makes us respectable.
Nature meant to make woman her masterpiece,
but committed a mistake in the choice of the clay; she took it too fine.
Nature must obey necessity.
Nature, mysterious even under the light of day, is not to be robbed of her veil; and what she does not choose to reveal you will not extort from her with levers and screws.
Nature needs little, fancy
Nature never did betray / The heart that loved her.
Nature never hurries; atom by atom, little
by little, she achieves her work.
Nature never made an unkind creature; ill-usage and bad habits have deformed a fair and lovely creation.
Nature never sends a great man into the planet without confiding the secret to another soul.
Nature owns no man who is not a martyr withal.
Nature passes nurture.
Nature respects race and not hybrids.
Nature sent women into the world that they might be mothers and love children, to whom sacrifices must ever be offered, and from whom none can be obtained.
Nature smiles as sweet, I ween, / To shepherds as to kings.
Nature stretches out her arms to embrace man; only let his thoughts be of equal greatness.
Nature, study, and practice must combine to ensure proficiency in any art.
Nature suffers nothing to remain in her kingdom
which cannot help itself.
Nature takes as much pains in the forming of a beggar as an emperor.
Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
Nature transcends all our moods of thought, and its secret we do not yet find.
Nature trips us up when we strut.
Nature understands no jesting; she is always
true, always serious, always severe; she is always right, and the errors and faults are always those of man. Him who is incapable of appreciating her she despises, and only to the apt, the pure, and the true, does she resign herself and reveal her secrets.
"Nature veils God," but what I see of Him in nature is not veiled.
Nature, which is the Time-vesture of God, and reveals Him to the wise, hides Him from the foolish.
Nature will not be Buddhist; she resents generalising, and insults the philosopher in every moment with a million of fresh particulars.
Nature without discipline is of small force, and discipline without nature more feeble.
Nature without learning is like a blind man;
learning without Nature, like a maimed one; practice without both, incomplete.
Nature works after such eternal, necessary, divine laws, that the Deity himself could alter nothing in them.
Nature works on the method of all for each and each for all.
Nature works very hard, and only hits the white once in a million throws. In mankind, she is contented if she yields one master in a century.
Nature's above art.
Nature's chief masterpiece is writing well.
Nature's shadows are ever varying.
Nature's tears are Reason's merriment.
Natures that have much heat, and great and violent desires and perturbations, are not ripe for action till they have passed the meridian of their years.
Natürlicher Verstand kann fast jeden Grad von Bildung ersetzen, aber keine Bildung den natürlichen Verstand
Natus nemo
Natus sum; esuriebam, quærebam; nunc repletas requiesco
Naufragium in portu facere
Nay! evermore, / All things and thoughts, both new and old, are writ / Upon the unchanging human heart and soul.
Nay, let us seek at home to find / Fit harvest for the brooding mind, / And find, since thus the world grows fair, / Duty and pleasure everywhere.
Nay, that's past praying for.
Nay, then, farewell! / I have touch'd the highest point of all my greatness, / And, from that full meridian of my glory, / I haste now to my setting: I shall fall / Like a bright exhalation in the evening, / And no man see me more.
Ne Æsopum quidem trivit
Ne cede malis, sed contra audentior ito
Ne depugnes in alieno negotio
Ne exeat regno
Ne faut-il que délibérer? / La cour en conseillers
foisonne: / Est-il besoin d'exécuter? / L'on ne rencontre personne
Ne forçons point notre talent; / Nous ne ferions rien avec grâce
Ne fronti crede
Ne Hercules quidem contra duos
Ne Jupiter quidem omnibus placet
Ne nimium
Ne obliviscaris
Ne plus ultra
Né pour la digestion
Ne quid detrimenti respublica capiat
Ne quid falsi dicere audeat, ne quid veri non
audeat
Ne quid nimis
Ne sutor supra crepidam
Ne te longis ambagibus ultra / Quam satis est morer
Ne te quæsiveris extra
Ne tempora perde precando
Ne tentes, aut perfice
Ne vile fano
Ne vile velis
Near and far do not belong to the eternal world, which is not of space and time.
Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin.
Nearer the kirk the farther frae grace.
Nearly all our powerful men in this age of the world are unbelievers; the best of them in doubt and misery; the plurality in plodding hesitation, doing, as well as they can, what practical work lies ready to their hands.
Neat, not gaudy.
Nec aspera terrent
Nec caput nec pedes
Nec cui de te plusquam tibi credas
Nec cupias, nec metuas
Nec deus intersit, nisi dignus vindice nodus
Nec domo dominus, sed domino domus honestanda est
Nec est ad astra mollis e terris via
Nec habeo, nec careo, nec curo
Nec lusisse pudet, sed non incidere ludum
Nec male notus eques
Nec meus audet / Rem tentare pudor, quam vires ferre recusent
Nec minor est virtus, quam quærere, parta
tueri: / Casus inest illic; hic erit artis opus
Nec mora, nec requies
Nec morti esse locum
Nec obolum habet unde restim emat
Nec omnia, nec semper, nec ab omnibus
Nec placida contentus quiete est
Nec pluribus impar
Nec prece nec pretio
Nec, quæ præteriit, iterum revocabitur unda; / Nec, quæ præteriit, hora redire potest
Nec quærere nec spernere honorem
Nec regi nec populo, sed utrique
Nec scire fas est omnia
Nec si non obstatur propterea etiam permittitur
Nec sibi, sed toti genitum se credere mundo
Nec soli cedit
Nec temere nec timide
Nec tibi quid liceat, sed quid fecisse decebit / Occurrat
Nec timeo, nec sperno
Nec Veneris pharetris macer est, aut lampade fervet: / Inde faces ardent, veniunt a dote sagittæ
Nec verbum verbo curabis reddere fidus / Interpres
Nec vidisse semel satis est, juvat usque morari, / Et conferre gradum, et veniendi discere causas
Nec vultu destrue dicta tuo
Necessary patience in seeking the Lord is
better than he that leadeth his life without a guide.
Necesse est cum insanientibus furere, nisi solus relinqueris
Necesse est ut multos timeat, quem multi timent
Necessità 'l c' induce, e non diletto
Necessitas non habet legem
Necessity does everything well.
Necessity is cruel, but it is the only test of inward strength. Every fool may live according to his own likings.
Necessity is the mistress of the arts.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. It is the argument of tyrants, it is the creed of slaves.
Necessity makes even cowards brave.
Necessity reforms the poor, and satiety the rich.
Necessity unites hearts.
Necessity urges desperate measures.
Necio es quien piensa que otros no piensan
Need mak's an auld wife trot.
Needles and pins, needles and pins! / When a man marries his trouble begins.
Needs must when the devil drives.
Ne'er grudge and carp, / Though fortune use you hard and sharp.
Ne'er let your gear owergang ye
Ne'er linger, ne'er o'erhasty be, / For time
moves on with measured foot.
Ne'er put a sword in a wud man's
hand.
Ne'er tak' a wife till ye ken what to do wi' her.
Ne'er the rose without the thorn.
Ne'er trust muckle to an auld enemy or a new freend.
Neglecta solent incendia sumere vires
Negligence is the rust of the soul, that corrodes through all her best resolves.
Negligere quid de se quisque sentiat, non solum arrogantis est, sed omnino dissoluti
Nehmt die Gottheit auf in euren Willen, / Und sie steigt von ihrem Weltenthron
Nehmt die Stimmung wahr, / Denn sie kommt so selten
Neid zu fühlen, ist menschlich; Schadenfreude
zu geniessen, teuflisch
Neither a borrower nor a lender be; / For loan oft loses both itself and friend.
Neither borrow money of a neighbour nor a friend, but of a stranger, where, paying for it, thou shalt hear no more of it.
Neither crow nor croak.
Neither exalt your pleasures, nor aggravate your vexations, beyond their real and natural state.
Neither heat, nor frost, nor thunder / Shall
wholly do away, I ween, / The marks of that which once hath been.
Neither hew down the whole forest, nor come home without wood.
Neither lead nor drive.
Neither our virtues nor vices are all our own.
Neither painting nor fighting feed men; nor can capital, in the form of money or machinery, feed them.
Neither praise nor blame is the object of true
criticism. Justly to discriminate, firmly to establish, wisely to prescribe, and honestly to award--these are the true aims and duties of criticism.
Neither rhyme nor reason.
Neither seek nor shun the fight.
Neither sign a paper without reading it, nor drink water without seeing it.
Neither wise men nor fools / Can work without tools.
Neither woman nor man, nor any kind of creature
in the universe, was born for the exclusive, or even the chief, purpose of falling in love or being fallen in love with.... Except the zoophytes and coral insects of the Pacific Ocean, I am acquainted with no creature with whom it is the one or grand object.
Neither women nor linen by candlelight.
Nem. con.
Nem. diss.
Nemesis checks, with cubit-rule and bridle, /
Immoderate deeds, and boastings rash and idle.
Nemesis is lame, but she is of colossal stature, like the gods.
Nemo allegans suam turpitudinem audiendus est
Nemo dat quod non habet
Nemo debet bis puniri pro uno delicto
Nemo debet bis vexari pro una et eadem causa
Nemo debet esse judex in propria causa
Nemo doctus mutationem consilii inconstantiam dixit esse
Nemo est tam senex qui se annum non putat posse vivere
Nemo ex proprio dolo consequitur actionem
Nemo impetrare potest a papa bullam nunquam moriendi
Nemo ita pauper vivit, quam pauper natus est
Nemo læditur nisi a seipso
Nemo malus felix, minime corruptor
Nemo mathematicus genium indemnatus habebit
Nemo me impune lacessit
Nemo mortalium omnibus horis sapit
Nemo patriam in qua natus est exuere nec ligeantiæ debitum ejurare possit
Nemo potest mutare consilium suum in alterius injuriam
Nemo potest nudo vestimenta detrahere
Nemo potest personam diu ferre fictam
Nemo præsumitur alienam posteritatem suæ
prætulisse
Nemo punitur pro alieno delicto
Nemo quam bene vivat, sed quamdiu, curat: quum omnibus possit contingere ut bene vivat, ut diu nulli
Nemo repente fuit turpissimus
Nemo sibi nascitur
Nemo solus sapit
Nemo tenetur se ipsum accusare
Nemo vir magnus sine aliquo afflatu divino unquam fuit
Nequaquam satis in re una consumere curam
Neque culpa neque lauda teipsum
Neque fœmina, amissa pudicitia, alia abnuerit
Neque mala vel bona quæ vulgus putet
Neque opinione sed natura constitutum est jus
Neque quies gentium sine armis neque arma sine stipendiis neque stipendia sine tributis haberi queunt
Neque semper arcum / Tendit Apollo
Nequicquam sapit qui sibi non sapit
Nervus rerum
Nescia mens hominum fati sortisque futuræ, / Et servare modum, rebus sublata secundis
Nescio qua natale solum dulcedine captos / Ducit, et immemores non sinit esse sui
Nescio qua præter solitum dulcedine læti
Nescire autem quid antea quam natus sis acciderit, id est semper esse puerum. Quid enim est ætas hominis, nisi memoria rerum veterum cum superioribus contexitur?
Nescis tu quam meticulosa res sit ire ad judicem
Nescit vox missa reverti
Nessun maggior dolore / Che ricordarsi del tempo felice / Nella miseria
Nessuno nasce maestro
Neu Regiment bringt neue Menschen auf, / Und früheres Verdienst veraltet schnell
Neutral men are the devil's allies.
Never a tear bedims the eye / That time and patience will not dry; / Never a lip is curved in pain / That can't be kissed into smiles again.
Never anger / Made good guard for itself.
Never anything can be amiss / When simpleness and duty tender it.
Never ask a favour of a man until he has had his dinner.
Never be afraid to doubt, if only you have the disposition to believe.
Never bray at an ass.
Never burn your fingers to snuff another man's candle.
Never buy a pig in a poke.
Never by reflection, only by doing what it lies on him to do, is self-knowledge possible to any man.
Never cackle till your egg is laid.
Never confuse a myth with a lie.... The
thoughts of all the greatest and wisest men hitherto have been expressed through mythology.
Never deal in mistakes; they aye bring mischances.
Never deceive a friend.
Never desire to appear clever and make a show of your talents before men. Be honest, loving, kindly, and sympathetic in all you say and do. Cleverness will flow from you naturally if you have it, and applause will come to you unsought from those who know what to applaud; but the applause of fools is to be shunned.
Never despise the day of small things.
Never disregard what your enemies say.
Never do anything of the rectitude of which you have a doubt.
Never do that by proxy which you can do yourself.
Never do things by halves.
Never durst poet touch a pen to write / Until his ink were temper'd with love's sighs; / O, then his lines would ravish savage ears, / And plant in tyrants mild humility.
Never elated when one man's oppress'd; /
Never dejected while anothers bless'd.
Never fall out with your bread and butter.
Never find fault with the absent.
Never fish in troubled waters.
Never forget St. Paul's sentence, "Love is the fulfilling of the law." This is the steam of the social machine; but the steam requires regulation; it is regulated by intelligence and moderation.
Never fry a fish till it's caught.
Never give up the ship.
Never grudge a penny for a pennyworth.
Never grumble nor mumble.
Never hang a man twice for one offence.
Never have an idle hour, or an idle pound.
Never hold a candle to the devil.
Never indulge the notion that you have any absolute right to choose the sphere or the circumstances in which you are to put forth your powers of social action.
Never is a lang term.
Never is a long day.
Never king dropped out of the clouds.
Never lean on a broken staff.
Never leave a certainty for an uncertainty.
Never leave that till to-morrow which you can do to-day.
Never let any one see the bottom of your purse or your mind.
Never let Fortune be thy mistress, nor Misfortune
thy maid.
Never let us be discouraged with ourselves. It is not when we are conscious of our faults that we are the most wicked; on the contrary, we are less so.
Never let your zeal outrun your charity; the former is but human, the latter is divine.
Never look a gift-horse in the mouth.
Never look for a knot in a bulrush.
Never look for birds of this year in the nests
of the last.
Never make a jest of any Scripture expressions.
Never meet trouble half way.
Never mind the future: be what you ought to be; the rest is God's affair.
Never mind who was your grandfather. What are you?
Never morning wore / To evening, but some
heart did break.
Never neglect small matters and expenses.
Never offer to teach fish to swim.
Never preach beyond your experience.
Never put your arm out farther than you can draw it back again.
Never put your hand into a wasp's nest.
Never read borrowed books. To be without books of your own is the abyss of penury. Don't endure it. And when you have to buy them, you'll think whether they're worth reading; which you had better, on all accounts.
Never repeat old grievances.
Never risk a joke, even the least offensive in its nature and the most common, with a person who is not well-bred, and possessed of sense to comprehend it.
Never say die! / Up, man, and try!
Never say of another what you would not have
him hear.
Never seek to tell thy love, / Love that never told can be, / For the gentle wind doth move / Silently, invisibly.
Never shirk the hardest work.
Never sigh, but send.
Never since Aaron's rod went out of practice, or even before it, was there such a wonder-working tool as a pen; greater than all recorded miracles have been performed by pens.
Never speak ill of those whose bread you eat.
Never speak of love with scorn; / Such were direst treason; / Love was made for eve and morn, / And for every season.
Never spur a willing horse.
Never stint soap and water.
Never swap horses while crossing a stream.
Never talk half a minute without pausing and giving others an opportunity to strike in.
Never tell in the parlour what you heard in the kitchen.
Never tell your resolution before-hand.
Never that I could in searching find out, has man been, by time which devours much, deprived of any faculty whatsoever that he in any era was possessed of.
Never throw a hen's egg at a sparrow.
Never till now did young men, and almost children, take such a command in human affairs.
Never title yet so mean could prove, / But there was eke a mind which did that title love.
Never too old to turn; never too late to learn.
Never trouble yourself with trouble till trouble troubles you.
Never trust a wolf with the care of lambs.
Never try to prove what nobody doubts.
Never venture all in one bottom.
Never was scraper
Never waste pains on bad ground; let it remain rough. Though properly looked after and cared for, it will be of best service so.
Never write anything that does not give you great pleasure; emotion is easily propagated from the writer to the reader.
Never write on a subject without having first read yourself full on it; and never read on a subject till you have thought yourself hungry on it.
Never write what you dare not sign.
Never yet created eye / Could see across eternity.
Never yet has it been our fortune to fall in with any man of genius whose conclusions did not correspond better with his premises, and not worse, than those of other men; whose genius, once understood, did not manifest itself in a deeper, fuller, truer view of all things human and divine, than the clearest of your so-called laudable "practical men" had claim to.
Never yet, since the proud selfish race / Of men began to jar, did passion give, / Nor can it ever give, a right decision.
Never yet / Was noble man but made ignoble talk.
New acquests are more burden than strength.
New brooms sweep clean.
New, daring, and inspiring ideas are engendered only in a clear head over a glowing heart, as the richest wines grow over the volcanoes.
New laws, new frauds.
New lords, new laws.
New-made honour doth forget men's names; / 'Tis too respective and too sociable, / For your conversion.
New presbyter is but old priest writ large.
New religion! We already, in our dim heads, know truths (of religion) by the thousand; and, yet in our dead hearts, we will not perform them by the ten, by the unit.
New scenes impress new ideas, enrich the imagination, and enlarge the power of reason.
Newspapers always excite curiosity. No one ever lays one down without a feeling of disappointment.
Next in importance to the matter of books are their titles.
"Next to a lost battle, nothing is so sad as
a battle that has been won."
Next to Christmas Day the most pleasant annual epoch in existence is the advent of the New Year.
Next to excellence is the appreciation of it.
Next to nae wife, a gude wife is the best.
Next to religion, let your care be to promote justice.
Next to the assumption of power is the responsibility
of relinquishing it.
Next to the consciousness of doing a good action, that of doing a civil one is the most pleasing.
Next to the gods, of all man's possessions his soul is the mightiest, being the most his own.
Next to the originator of a good sentence is the first quoter of it.
Next to the satisfaction I receive in the prosperity of an honest man, I am best pleased with the confusion of a rascal.
Next to theology I give to music the highest
place and honour; and we see how David and all the saints have wrought their godly thoughts into verse, rhyme, and song.
Ni l'or ni la grandeur ne nous rendent heureux
Ni l'un ni l'autre
Ni trop haut, ni trop bas; c'est le souverain style
Nice distinctions are out of the question upon occasions like those of speech, which return every hour.
Nicht alle sind Diebe, die der Hund anbellt
Nicht alles Wünschenswerte ist erreichbar; nicht alles Erkennenswerte ist erkennbar
Nicht an die Güter hänge dein Herz, / Die das Leben vergänglich zieren! / Wer besitzt, der lerne verlieren; / Wer im Glück ist, der lerne den Schmerz!
Nicht der Besitz, nur das Enthüllen, / Das leise Finden nur ist süss
Nicht der ist auf der Welt verwaist, / Dessen Vater und Mutter gestorben, / Sondern der für Herz und Geist / Keine Lieb' und kein Wissen erworben
Nicht die Kinder bloss speist man / Mit Märchen ab
Nicht draussen im Strudel verrauschender Lust / Erwarte, das Glück dir zu finden: / Die Seligkeit wohnt in der eigenen Brust, / Hier musst du sie ewig begründen!
Nicht grösseren Vortheil wüsst' ich zu nennen /
Als des Feindes Verdienst erkennen
Nicht immer am besten erfahren ist, / Wer am ältesten an Jahren ist, / Und wer am meisten gelitten hat, / Nicht immer die besten Sitten hat!
Nicht immer macht das Kleid den Mann
Nicht in die ferne Zeit verliere dich! / Den Augenblick ergreife, der ist dein
Nicht in kalten Marmorsteinen, / Nicht in Tempeln dumpf und tot, / In den frischen Eichenhainen / Webt und rauscht der deutsche Gott
Nicht jede Besserung ist Tugend
Nicht Kunst and Wissenschaft allein, / Geduld will bei dem Werke sein
Nicht Rosen bloss, auch Dornen hat der Himmel
Nicht so redlich wäre redlicher
Nichts Abgeschmackters find' ich auf der Welt / Als einen Teufel, der verzweifelt
Nichts Böses thun ist gut; / Nichts Böses
wollen ist besser
Nichts führt zum Guten, was nicht natürlich ist
Nichts halb zu thun ist edler Geister Art
Nichts ist dem Menschen so schwer zu tragen, / Als eine Reihe von guten Tagen
Nichts ist göttlich, als was vernünftig ist
Nichts ist höher zu schätzen, als der Wert des
Tages
Nichts ist so elend als ein Mann, / Der alles will, und der nichts kann
Nichts stirbt, was wirklich gut und göttlich war
Nichts thun lehrt Uebel thun
Nichtswürdig ist die Nation, die nicht / Ihr Alles freudig setzt an ihre Ehre
Nick does not pretend to be a gentleman.
Nicknames stick to people, and the most ridiculous are the most adhesive.
Nie kommt das Unglück ohne sein Gefolge
Niemand ist frei, der nicht über sich selbst Herr ist
Niemand ist mehr Sklave, als der sich für frei hält ohne es zu sein
Niemand weiss, wie weit seine Kräfte gehen,
bis er sie versucht hat
Niggardliness is not good husbandry.
Night is a good herdsman; she brings all creatures home.
Night is the mither
Night is the Sabbath of mankind, / To rest the body and the mind.
Night! that great shadow and profile of the
day.
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day / Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain-tops.
Night's deepest gloom is but a calm, / That soothes the wearied mind; / The labour'd day's restoring balm, / The comfort of mankind.
Nightingales will not sing in a cage.
Nihil a Deo vacat; opus suum ipse implet
Nihil ad rem
Nihil agit qui diffidentem verbis solatur suis; / Is est amicus qui in re dubia re juvat, ubi re est opus
Nihil aliud necessarium ut sis miser, quam ut te miserum credas
Nihil cum fidibus graculo
Nihil enim legit, quod non excerperet. Dicere etiam solebat, nullum esse librum tam malum, ut non aliqua parte prodesset
Nihil eripit fortuna nisi quod et dedit
Nihil est ab omni / Parte beatum
Nihil est annis velocius!
Nihil est aptius ad delectationem lectoris,
quam temporum varietates, fortunæque vicissitudines
Nihil est quod credere de se / Non possit
Nihil est quod Deus efficere non possit.
Nihil est tam utile, quod in transitu prosit
Nihil est tam volucre quam maledictum, nihil facilius emittitur, nihil citius excipitur, nihil latius dissipatur
Nihil hic nisi carmina desunt
Nihil honestum esse potest, quod justitia vacat
Nihil largiundo gloriam adeptus est
Nihil morosius hominum judiciis
Nihil potest rex nisi quod de jure potest
Nihil quod est inconveniens est licitum
Nihil scire est vita jucundissima
Nihil scriptum miraculi causa
Nihil simul inventum est et perfectum
Nihil tam absurdum dici potest ut non dicatur a philosopho
Nihil tam firmum est, cui periculum non sit
etiam ab invalido
Nihil tam munitum est, quod non expugnari pecunia possit
Nihil turpius est quam gravis ætate senex, qui nullum aliud habet argumentum, quo se probet diu vixisse, præter ætatem
Nihil unquam peccavit, nisi quod mortua est
Nil actum credens, dum quid superesset agendum
"Nil admirari" is the motto which men of the
world always affect, thinking it vulgar to wonder or be enthusiastic.
Nil admirari prope est res una, Numici, / Solaque, quæ possit facere et servare beatum
Nil æquale homini fuit illi
Nil agit exemplum litem quod lite resolvit
Nil consuetudine majus
Nil cupientium / Nudus castra peto
Nil debet
Nil desperandum
Nil desperandum Teucro duce et auspice Teucro
Nil dicit
Nil dictu fœdum visuque hæc limina tangat, /
Intra quæ puer est
Nil dictum quod non dictum prius
Nil ego contulerim jucundo sanus amico
Nil erit ulterius quod nostris moribus addat / Posteritas; eadem cupient facientque minores: / Omne in præcipiti vitium stetit
Nil feret ad manes divitis umbra suos
Nil fuit unquam sic impar sibi
Nil habet infelix paupertas durius in se, / Quam quod ridiculos homines facit
Nil homini certum est
Nil me officit unquam, / Ditior hic, aut est quia doctior; est locus uni / Cuique suus
Nil mortalibus arduum est
Nil nisi cruce
Nil oriturum alias, nil ortum tale fatentes
Nil peccant oculi, si oculis animus imperet
Nil proprium ducas quod mutari potest
Nil rectum nisi quod placuit sibi ducunt
Nil sine magno / Vita labore dedit mortalibus
Nil sine te mei prosunt honores
Nil sole et sale utilius
Nil spernat auris, nec tamen credat statim
Nil tam difficile est quod non solertia vincat
Nil tam inæstimable est quam animi multitudinis
Nil temere novandum
Nil unquam longum est, quod sine fine placet
Nimia cura deterit magis quam emendat
Nimia est voluptas, si diu abfueris a domo / Domum si redieris, si tibi nulla est ægritudo animo obviam
Nimia illæc licentia / Profecto evadet in aliquod magnum malum
Nimia subtilitas in jure reprobatur, et talis
certitudo certitudinem confundit
Nimirum insanus paucis videatur, eo quod / Maxima pars hominum morbo jactatur eodem
Nimis uncis / Naribus indulges
Nimium altercando veritas amittitur
Nimium ne crede colori
Nimius in veritate, et similitudinis quam pulchritudinis
amantior
Nimm alles leicht! das Träumen lass und Grübeln! / So bleibst du wohlbewahrt vor tausend Uebeln
Nimm die Welt, wie sie ist, nicht wie sie seyn sollte
Nimm wahr die Zeit; sie eilet sich, / Und kommt nicht wieder ewiglich
Nine tailors cannot make a man.
Nine-tenths of existing books are nonsense,
and the clever books are the refutation of that nonsense.
Nine-tenths of our critics have told us little more of Shakespeare than what honest Franz Horn says his neighbours used to tell of him, "he was a great spirit, and stept majestically along."
Nine things to sight required are: / The power to see, the light, the visible thing, / Being not too small, too thin, too nigh, too far; / Clear space, and time, the form distinct to bring.
Nine times out of ten it is over the Bridge of Sighs that we pass the narrow gulf from youth to manhood. That interval is usually occupied by an ill-placed or disappointed affection. We recover and we find ourselves a new being. The intellect has become hardened by the fire through which it has passed. The mind profits by the wrecks of every passion, and we may measure our road to wisdom by the sorrows we have undergone.
Nine tithes of times / Face-flatterer and back-biter are the same.
Nineteen nay-says are half a grant.
Nisi caste, saltem caute
Nisi Dominus, frustra
Nisi prius
Nisi utile est quod facias, stulta est gloria
Nitimur in vetitum semper, cupimusque negata
Nitor in adversum, nec me, qui cætera vincit / Impetus, et rapido contrarius evehor orbi
"No," a monosyllable, the easiest learned by the child, but the most difficult to practise by the man, contains within it the import of a life, the weal or woe of an eternity.
No accidents are so unlucky that the prudent may not draw some advantage from them.
No affections and a great brain; these are the men to command the world.
No age ever seemed the age of Romance to
itself.
No age, sex, or condition is above or below the absolute necessity of modesty; but without it one is vastly beneath the rank of man.
No answer is also an answer.
No art can be noble which is incapable of expressing thought, and no art is capable of expressing thought which does not change.
No artist-work is so high, so noble, so grand, so enduring, so important for all time, as the making of character in a child.
No ashes are lighter than those of incense, and few things burn out sooner.
No atheist denies a divinity, but only some name of a divinity; the God is still present there, working in that benighted heart, were it only as a god of darkness.
No author can be as moral as his works, as no preacher is as pious as his sermons.
No author ever spared a brother; / Wits are
gamecocks to one another.
No author is a man of genius to his publisher.
No autumn fruit without spring blossoms.
No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity.
No bees, no honey; / No work, no money.
No belief of ours will change the facts or
reverse the laws of the spiritual universe; and it is our first business to discover the laws and to learn how the facts stand.
No belief which is contrary to truth can be really useful.
No bird ever flew so high but it had to come to the ground for food.
No blank, no trifle, Nature made or meant.
No book is worth anything which is not worth much; nor is it serviceable until it has been read, and re-read, and loved, and loved again.
No book that will not improve by repeated
readings deserves to be read at all.
No book was ever written down by any but itself.
No ceremony that to great one 'longs, / Not the king's crown, nor the deputed sword, / The marshal's truncheon nor the judge's robe, / Become them with one half so good a grace / As mercy does.
No chair is so much wanted (in our colleges) as that of a professor of books.
No chaos can continue chaotic with a soul in it.
No character was ever rightly understood
until it had been first regarded with a certain feeling, not of tolerance only, but of sympathy.
No cheerfulness can ever be produced by effort which is itself painful.
No cloth is too fine for moth to devour.
No compound of this earthly ball / Is like another all in all.
No conflict is so severe as his who labours to subdue himself.
No conquest can ever become permanent
which does not withal show itself beneficial to the conquered as well as to the conquerors.
No corn without chaff.
No; creation, one would think, cannot be easy; your Jove has severe pains, and fire flames, in the head out of which an armed Pallas is struggling.
No creature smarts so little as a fool.
No crime is so great as daring to excel.
No cross, no crown.
No diga la lengua par do pague la cabeza
No distance breaks the tie of blood: / Brothers are brothers evermore; / Nor wrong, nor wrath of deadliest mood, / That magic may o'erpower.
No doubt but ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with you.
No doubt every person is entitled to make and to think as much of himself as possible, only he ought not to worry others about this, for they have enough to do with and in themselves, if they too are to be of some account, both now and hereafter.
No dynamite will ever be invented that can
rule; it can but dissolve and destroy. Only the word of God and the heart of man can govern.
No earnest man, in any time, ever spoke what was wholly meaningless.
No earnest thinker is a plagiarist pure and simple. He will never borrow from others that which he has not already, more or less, thought out for himself.
No entertainment is so cheap as reading, nor any pleasure so lasting.
No errors are so mischievous as those of great men.
No evil can touch him who looks on human
beauty; he feels himself at one with himself and with the world.
No evil dies so soon as that which has been patiently sustained.
No evil is felt till it comes, and when it comes no counsel helps. Wisdom is always too early and too late.
No evil is without its compensation.
No evil propensity of the human heart is so powerful that it may not be subdued by discipline.
No experiment is dangerous the result of which
we have the courage to meet.
No expression of politeness but has its root in the moral nature of man.
No eye to watch, and no tongue to wound us, / All earth forgot, and all heaven around us.
No fact in nature but carries the whole sense of nature.
No falsehood can endure / Touch of celestial temper.
No fathers or mothers think their own children
ugly.
No fishing like fishing in the sea.
No flattery, boy; an honest man can't live by 't; / It is a little sneaking art, which knaves / Use to cajole and soften fools withal.
No fool was ever so foolish, but some one thought him clever.
No fountain so small but that heaven may be imaged in its bosom.
No friend a friend until he shall prove a friend.
No frost can freeze Providence.
No gains without pains.
No ghost was ever seen by two pair of eyes.
No girl who is well bred, kind, and modest is ever offensively plain; all real deformity means want of manners or of heart.
No golden age ever called itself golden, but only expected one.
No good book or good thing of any sort shows its best face at first; nay, the commonest quality in a true work of art, if its excellence have any depth and compass, is that at first sight it occasions a certain disappointment.
No good doctor ever takes physic.
No good is ever done to society by the pictorial representation of its diseases.
No good lawyer ever goes to law himself.
No good or lovely thing exists in this world without its correspondent darkness; and the universe presents itself continually to mankind under the stern aspect of warning, or of choice, the good and the evil set on the right hand and the left.
No good work whatever can be perfect; and the demand for perfection is always a sign of a misunderstanding of the ends of art.
No government is safe unless fortified by goodwill.
No grace can save any man unless he helps himself.
No grain of sand / But moves a bright and million-peopled land, / And hath its Eden and its Eves, I deem.
No grand doer in this world can be a copious speaker about his doings.
No great composition was ever produced but with the same heavenly involuntariness in which a bird builds her nest.
No great intellectual thing was ever done
by great effort.
No great man was ever other than a genuine man.
No great truth is allowed by Nature to be demonstrable to any person who, foreseeing its consequences, desires to refuse it.
No greater hell than to be a slave to fear.
No greater men are now than ever were.
No greater misfortune can befall a man than
to be the victim of an idea which has no hold on his life, still more which detaches him from it.
No greater promisers than those who have nothing to give.
No hand can make the clock strike for me the hours that are past.
No hay dulzura sin sudor
No hay tal razon como la del baston
No heart opens to sympathy without letting
in delicacy.
No Hecuba, by aid of rouge and ceruse, is a Helen made.
No herb will cure love.
No heroine can create a hero through love of one, but she may give birth to one.
No honestly exerted force can be utterly lost.
No horse so blind as the blind mare.
No house without mouse; no throne without thorn.
No human capacity ever yet saw the whole of a thing; but we may see more and more of it the longer we look.
No human face is exactly the same in its lines on each side, no leaf perfect in its lobes, no branch in its symmetry.
No idea can succeed except at the expense of sacrifices; no one ever escapes without a stain from the struggle of life.
No intellectual images are without use.
No iron chain, or outward force of any kind, can ever compel the soul of a man to believe or to disbelieve.
"No" is a surly, honest fellow--speaks his mind rough and round at once. "But" is a sneaking, evasive, half-bred, exceptuous sort of conjunction, which comes to pull away the cup just when it is at your lips.
No joy so great but runneth to an end; / No hap so hard but may in time amend.
No joy without alloy.
No knowledge is lost, but perfected, and
changed for much nobler, sweeter, greater knowledge.
No labour is hard, no time is long, wherein the glory of eternity is the mark we level at.
No law can be finally sacred to me but the law of my own nature.
No leaf moves but as God wills it.
No legacy is so rich as honesty.
No lie you can speak or act, but it will come,
after longer or shorter circulation, like a bill drawn on Nature's reality, and be presented there for payment, with the answer: "No effects."
No literature is complete until the language in which it is written is dead.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
No lover should have the insolence to think of being accepted at once, nor should any girl have the cruelty to refuse at once, without severe reasons.
No lying knight or lying priest ever prospered in any age, but certainly not in the dark ones. Men prospered then only in following openly-declared purposes, and preaching candidly-beloved and trusted creeds.
No man at bottom means injustice; it is always
for some obscure distorted image of a right that he contends.
No man at the head of affairs always wishes to be explicit.
No man bathes twice in the same river.
No man beholdeth prosperity who doth not encounter danger; but having encountered danger, if he surviveth, he beholdeth it.
No man but a blockhead ever wrote except for money.
No man can antedate his experience.
No man can answer for his courage who has never been in danger.
No man can be a good poet without first being a good man.
No man can be a poet / That is not a good cook, to know the palates / And several tastes of the time.
No man can be a hero in anything who is not first of all a hero in faith.
No man can be brave who considers pain to be
the greatest evil of life; nor temperate, who considers pleasure to be the highest good.
No man can be good, or great, or happy, except through inward efforts of his own.
No man can be said to have the spirit who does not walk in it, or to be born of the spirit until the spirit is born of him.
No man can be so entirely a devil as to extinguish in himself the last ray of light.
No man can become largely rich by his personal toil, but only by discovery of some method of taxing the labour of others.
No man can buy anything in the market with
gentility.
No man can, for a length of time, be wholly wretched, if there is not a disharmony (a folly and wickedness) within himself; neither can the richest Crœsus, and never so eupeptic, be other than discontented, perplexed, unhappy, if he be a fool.
No man can force the harp of his own individuality into the people's heart; but every man may play upon the chords of the people's heart, who draws his inspiration from the people's instinct.
No man can gather cherries in Kent at the season of Christmas.
No man can judge another, because no man knows himself; for we censure others but as they disagree with that humour which we fancy laudable in ourselves, and commend others but for that wherein they seem to quadrate and consent with us.
No man can learn what he has not preparation
for learning, however near to his eyes the object may be.
No man can live half a life when he has genuinely learned that it is only half a life. The other half, the higher half, must haunt him.
No man can lose what he never had.
No man can make a good coat with bad cloth.
No man can produce great things who is not thoroughly sincere in dealing with himself.
No man can quite emancipate himself from his
age and country, or produce a model in which the education, the religion, the politics, the usages, and the arts of his times shall have no share.
No man can read with profit that which he cannot learn to read with pleasure.
No man can say in what degree any other person, besides himself, can be, with strict justice, called wicked.
No man can see over his own height.
No man can serve two masters.
No man can thoroughly master more than one
art or science.
No man can transcend his own individuality.
No man doth safely appear abroad but he who can abide at home.
No man doth safely rule but he that hath learned gladly to obey.
No man doth safely speak but he who is glad to hold his peace.
No man ever became, or can become, largely
rich merely by labour and economy.
No man ever did or ever will become truly eloquent without being a constant reader of the Bible, and an admirer of the purity and sublimity of its language.
No man ever prayed heartily without learning something.
No man ever stated his griefs as lightly as he might.
No man ever worked his passage anywhere in a dead calm. Let no man wax pale, therefore, because of opposition.
No man flatters the woman he truly loves.
No man had ever a point of pride but was injurious to him.
No man has a claim to credit upon his own word, when better evidence, if he had it, may be easily produced.
No man has a prosperity so high and firm but two or three words can dishearten it.
No man has a right to say to his own generation, turning quite away from it, "Be damned."
No man has a worse friend than he brings
with him from home.
No man has any data for estimating, far less right of judging, the results of a life of resolute self-denial, until he has had the courage to try it himself.
No man has come to true greatness who has not felt in some degree that his life belongs to his race, and that what God gives him he gives him for mankind.
No man has worked, or can work, except religiously.
No man hath a thorough taste of prosperity to whom adversity never happened.
No man hath a velvet cross.
No man hath a virtue that he has not a glimpse of; nor any man an attaint, but he carries some stain of it.
No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.
No man is a good physician who has never been sick.
No man is a hero to his valet-de-chambre.
No man is always wise except a fool.
No man is born into this world whose work is not born with him; there is always work, and tools to work withal, for those who will; and blessed are the horny hands of toil.
No man is born wise or learned.
No man is either worthy of a good home here or a heaven hereafter that is not willing to be in peril for a good cause.
No man is esteemed for gay garments but by fools and women.
No man is ever good for much who has not been carried off his feet by enthusiasm between twenty and thirty.
No man is ever hurt but by himself.
No man is ever paid for his real work, or should
ever expect or demand angrily to be paid; all work properly so called is an appeal from the seen to the unseen--a devout calling upon higher powers; and unless they stand by us, it will not be a work, but a quackery.
No man is free who cannot command himself.
No man is good but as he wishes the good of others.
No man is justified in resisting by word or deed the authority he lives under for a light cause, be such authority what it may.
No man is nobler born than another, unless he is born with better abilities and a more amiable disposition.
No man is poor who does not think himself so.
But if in a full fortune with impatience he desires more, he proclaims his wants and his beggarly condition.
No man is quite sane; each has a slight determination of blood to the head, to make sure of holding him hard to some one point which Nature has taken to heart.
No man is rich whose expenditures exceed his means; and no one is poor whose incomings exceed his outgoings.
No man is so free as a beggar, and no man more solemnly a servant than an honest land-owner.
No man is so happy as never to give offence.
No man is so old but thinks he may live
another day.
No man is so sufficient as never to need assistance.
No man is so tall that he need never stretch, nor so small that he need never stoop.
No man is so worthy of envy as he that can be cheerful in want.
No man is such a conqueror as the man who has defeated himself.
No man is the wiser for his learning.... Wit
and wisdom are born with a man.
No man is the worse for knowing the worst of himself.
No man is to be deemed free who has not perfect self-command.
No man is wise enough or good enough to be intrusted with unlimited power.
No man is wise or safe but be that is honest.
No man is without enemies.
No man is without his load of trouble.
No man lives so poor as he was born.
No man loves to frustrate expectations which have been formed in his favour.
No man loveth his fetters, be they made of gold.
No man needs money so much as he who
despises it.
No man needs to study history to find out what is best for his own culture.
No man or woman of the humblest sort can really be strong, gentle, pure, and good, without the world being better for it, without somebody being helped and comforted by the very existence of that goodness.
No man perhaps suspects how large and important the region of unconsciousness in him is; what a vast, unknown territory lies there back of his conscious will and purpose, and which is really the controlling power of his life.
No man praises happiness as he would justice, but calls it blessed, as being something more divine and excellent.
No man regards an eruption upon the surface
when the noble parts are invaded, and he feels a mortification approaching to his heart.
"No man," said Pestalozzi, "in God's wide universe, is either willing or able to help any other man." Help must come from the bosom alone.
No man sees far; the most see no farther than their noses.
No man should be so much taken up in the search of truth, as thereby to neglect the more necessary duties of active life.
No man should enter into alliance with his enemy, even with the tightest bonds of union. Water made ever so hot will still quench fire.
No man should ever be ashamed to own he
has been in the wrong, which is but saying, in other words, that he is wiser to-day than he was yesterday.
No man should ever display his bravery who is unprepared for battle; nor bear the marks of defiance, until he hath experienced the abilities of his enemy.
No man should form an acquaintance, nor enter into any amusements, with one of an evil character. A piece of charcoal, if it be hot, burneth; and if it be cold, blackeneth the hand.
No man should part with his own individuality and become that of another.
No man should strive to precede his fellows; for, should the work succeed, the booty is equal, and if it fail, the leader is punished.
No man should think so highly of himself as
to think he can receive but little light from books, nor so meanly as to believe he can discover nothing but what is to be learned from them.
No man talks of that which he is desirous to conceal, and every man desires to conceal that of which he is ashamed.
No man thoroughly understands a truth until he has contended against it.
No man troubleth the beggar with questioning his religion or politics.
No man was ever as rich as all men ought to be.
No man was ever scolded out of his sins.
No man was ever so much deceived by another as by himself.
No man was ever written out of reputation but by himself.
No man was more foolish when he had not a pen in his hand, or more wise when he had.
No man whatever believes, or can believe, exactly what his grandfather believed.
No man who does not choose, enter into and
walk in some narrow way of life, will ever have any moral character, any clearness of purpose, any wisdom of intelligence, or any tenderness or strength of heart.
No man who has once heartily and wholly laughed can be altogether irreclaimably bad.
No man who is wretched in his own heart and feeble in his own work can rightly help others.
No man who needs a monument ever ought to have one.
No man's conscience can tell him the rights of another man.
No man's pie is freed / From his ambitious
finger.
No man's religion ever survives his morals.
No mata la carga sino la sobrecarga
No matter how much faculty of idle seeing a man has, the step from knowing to doing is rarely taken.
No matter what his rank or position may be, the lover of books is the richest and happiest of the children of men.
No might nor greatness in mortality / Can censure
'scape; back-wounding calumny / The whitest virtue strikes.
No mill, no meal.
No more can you distinguish of a man / Than of his outward show; which, God he knows, / Seldom or never jumpeth with the heart.
No more dangerous snare is set by the fiends for human frailty than the belief that our enemies are also the enemies of God.
No more of your titled acquaintances boast, / And in what lordly circles you've been: / An insect is still but an insect at most, / Though it crawl on the head of a queen.
No more subtle master under heaven / Than
is the maiden-passion for a maid, / Not only to keep down the base in man, / But teach high thought, and amiable words / And courtliness, and the desire of fame, / And love of truth, and all that makes a man.
No morning can restore what we have forfeited.
No mortal can both work and do good talking in Parliament or out of it; the feat is impossible as that of serving two hostile masters.
No mortal has a right to wag his tongue, much less to wag his pen, without saying something.
No mortal's endeavour or attainment will, in the smallest, content the as unendeavouring, unattaining young gentleman; but he could make it all infinitely better, were it worthy of him.
No mother worthy of the name ever gave herself
thoroughly for her child who did not feel that, after all, she reaped what she had sown.
No nation can be destroyed while it possesses a good home life.
No nation can bear wealth that is not intelligent first.
No nation can reform itself, as the English are now trying to do, by what their newspapers call "tremendous cheers." Reform is not joyous, but grievous; no single man can reform himself without stern suffering and stern working; how much less can a nation of men! Medea, when she made men young again, was wont to hew them in pieces with meat-axes; cast them into caldrons, and boil them for a length of time. How much handier could they have but done it by "tremendous cheers" alone!
No need to teach your grandames to suck eggs.
No news is good news.
No, no! I am but shadow of myself; / You are deceived, my substance is not here.
No noble task was ever easy.
No nobler feeling than this of admiration for one higher than himself, dwells in the breast of man.
No, not even faith, or hope, or any other virtue, is accepted by God without charity and grace.
No oath that binds to wrong can ever bind.
No one can bake cakes for the whole world.
No one can be a great thinker who does not recognise that, as a thinker, it is his first duty to follow his intellect to whatever conclusions it may lead.
No one can be despised by another until he has learned to despise himself.
No one can be in perfect accord with any one but himself.
No one can feel and exercise benevolence towards
another who is ill at ease with himself.
No one can find himself in himself or others; in fact, he has himself to spin, from the centre of which he exercises his influence.
No one can obtain what he does not bring with him.
No one can teach religion who has it not.
No one can teach you anything worth learning but through manual labour; the very bread of life can only be got out of the chaff of it by rubbing it in your hands.
No one claims kindred with the poor.
No one easily arrives at the conclusion that reason and a brave will are given us that we may not only hold back from evil, but also from the extreme of good.
No one eats goldfish.
No one ever impoverished himself by almsgiving.
No one ever possessed superior intellectual qualities without knowing them.
No one ever teaches well who wants to teach,
or governs well who wants to govern.
No one falls low unless he attempt to climb high.
No one gets into trouble without his own help.
No one has ever learned fully to know himself.
No one has ever yet succeeded in deceiving the whole world, nor has the world ever combined to deceive any individual.
No one has seen to-morrow.
No one is a slave whose will is free.
No one is by nature noble, respected of any one, nor a wretch. His own actions conduct him either to wretchedness or to the reverse.
No one is free who is not master of himself.
No one is more profoundly sad than he who laughs too much.
No one is qualified to converse in public who is
not highly contented without such conversation.
No one is qualified to entertain, or receive entertainment from others, who cannot entertain himself alone with satisfaction.
No one is rich enough to do without his neighbour.
No one is so hardy as to say God is in his debt, that he owed him a nobler being, for existence must be antecedent to merit.
No one knows how far his powers go till he has tried.
No one knows the weight of another's burden.
No one knows what he is doing while he is acting rightly, but of what is wrong we are always conscious.
No one knows when he is well off.
No one knows where the shoe pinches but him who wears it.
No one knows whether death, which men in their fear apprehend to be the greatest evil, may not be the greatest good.
No one likes to bell the cat.
No one shall look for effectual help to another; but each shall rest content with what help he can afford himself.
No one will become anything, every one will already be something.
No one would respect thee in a beggar's coat. What is the respect paid to woollen cloth, not to thee?
No one would talk much in society if he only knew how often he misunderstands others.
No orator can measure in effect with him who
can give good nicknames.
No order or profession of men is so sacred, no place so remote or solitary, but that temptations and troubles will find them out and intrude upon them.
No outward tyranny can reach the mind.
No padlocks, bolts, or bars can secure a maiden so well as her own reserve.
No pain, no palm; no thorns, no throne; no gall, no glory; no cross, no crown.
No pains, no gains.
No passions are without their use, none without their nobleness, when seen in balanced unity with the rest of the spirit which they are charged to defend.
No patient will ever recover his health merely from the description of a medicine.
No pay is receivable by any true man; but power is receivable by him in the love and faith you give him.
No peace was ever won from fate by subterfuge or agreement; no peace is ever in store for any of us but that which we shall win by victory over shame or sin--victory over the sin that oppresses, as well as over that which corrupts.
No penny, no paternoster.
No people at the present day can be explained by their national religion. They do not feel responsible for it; it lies far outside of them.
No person is either so happy or so unhappy as he imagines.
No pillow so soft as God's promise.
No pin's point can you mark within the wide circle of the All where God's laws are not.
No place, no company, no age, no person is
temptation-free; let no man boast that he was never tempted; let him not be high-minded, but fear, for he may be surprised in that very instant wherein he boasteth that he was never tempted at all.
No power of genius has ever yet had the smallest success in explaining existence.
No power of good can be obtained by doing nothing and by knowing nothing.
No prayer, no religion, or at least only a dumb and lame one.
No principle is more noble, as there is none more holy, than that of a true obedience.
No productiveness of the highest kind, no remarkable
discovery, no great thought which bears fruit and has results, is in the power of any one; such things are exalted above all earthly control. Man must consider them as an unexpected gift from above, as pure children of God, which he must receive and venerate with joyful thanks, ... as a vessel found worthy for the reception of such divine influence.
No profit canst thou gain / By self-consuming care.
No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en: / In brief, sir, study what you most affect.
No property is eternal but God the Maker's: Whom Heaven permits to take possession, his is the right; Heaven's sanction is such permission--while it lasts.
No real happiness is found / In trailing purple o'er the ground.
No really great man ever thought himself so.
No receiver, no thief.
No reckoning made, but sent to my account / With all my imperfections on my head.
No reports are more readily believed than those which disparage genius and soothe envy of conscious mediocrity.
No rest is worth anything except the rest that is earned.
No revenge is more heroic than that which torments envy by doing good.
No road is long with good company.
No sadder proof can be given by man of his
own littleness than disbelief in great men.
No safe wading in an unknown water.
No sensible person ever made an apology.
No si puo volar senza ale
No single action creates, however it may exhibit, a man's character.
No slave, to lazy ease resign'd, / E'er triumphed
over noble foes; / The monarch, Fortune, most is kind / To him who bravely dares oppose.
No slave's vote is other than a nuisance, whensoever, or wheresoever, or in what manner soever, it is given.
No smaller spirit can vanquish a greater.
No smoke, in any sense, but can become flame and radiance.
No society can be upheld in happiness and honour without the sentiment of religion.
No sooner is a temple built to God, but the
devil builds a chapel close by.
No soul to strong endeavour yoked for ever, / Works against the tide in vain.
No sound is dissonant which tells of life.
No speculation in those eyes / Which thou dost glare with!
No statesman e'er will find it worth his pains / To tax our labours and excise our brains.
No stronger castle than a poor man's.
No surer does the Auldgarth bridge, that his father helped to build, carry the traveller over the turbulent water beneath it, than Carlyle's books convey the reader over chasms and confusions, where before there was no way, or only an inadequate one.
No sword bites so fiercely as an evil tongue.
No tale so good but may be spoiled in the telling.
No teaching is spiritually profitable, that is of true vital avail, translateable into flesh and blood, unless with the teaching we imbibe the spirit that dictates it.
No theatre for virtue is equal to the consciousness
of it.
No theological absurdities so glaring that they have not sometimes been embraced by men of the greatest and most cultivated understanding. No religious precepts so rigorous that they have not been adopted by the most voluptuous and most abandoned of men.
No thoroughly occupied man was ever yet very miserable.
No thought is beautiful which is not just, and no thought can be just which is not founded on truth.
No thought is contented. The better sort, / As thoughts of things divine, are intermixed / With scruples, and do set the word itself / Against the word.
No trial is dangerous which there is courage
to meet.
No trouble, cross, or death / E'er shall silence faith and praise.
No truly great man ever founded, wilfully intended founding, a sect.
No two on earth in all things can agree; / All have some darling singularity.
No two virtues, whatever relation they claim, / Nor even two different shades of the same, / Though like as was ever twin-brother to brother, / Possessing the one shall imply you've the other.
No useless coffin enclosed his breast, / Not in
sheet nor in shroud we wound him; / But he lay like a warrior taking his rest, / With his martial cloak around him.
No vice goes alone.
No victory worth having was ever won without cost.
No violent extreme endures.
No visor does become black villany / So well as soft and tender flattery.
No weather's ill when the wind's still.
No weeping for shed milk.
No whip cuts so sharply as the lash of conscience.
No wild beast more to be dreaded than a communicative man having nothing to communicate.
No wild enthusiast ever yet could rest / Till half mankind were like himself possess'd.
No wind is of service to him who is bound for
nowhere.
No wise combatant underrates his antagonist.
No wise man can have a contempt for the prejudices of others; and he should even stand in a certain awe of his own, as if they were aged parents and monitors. They may in the end prove wiser than he.
No wise man ever wished to be younger.
No wise man should make known the loss of fortune, any malpractices in his house, his being cheated, or his having been disgraced.
No woman can be handsome by the force of
features alone, any more than she can be witty only by the help of speech.
No woman is educated who is not equal to the successful management of a family.
No woman is so bad but we may rejoice when her heart thrills to love, for then God has her by the hand.
No woman shall succeed in Salique land.
No wonder is greater than any other wonder, and if once explained, it ceases to be a wonder.
No wonder lasts over three days.
No wonder we are all more or less pleased with mediocrity, since it leaves us at rest, and gives the same comfortable feeling as when one associates with his equals.
No word is ill spoken if it be not ill taken.
No words suffice the secret soul to show, / For truth denies all eloquence to woe.
No work, no recompense.
No working world, any more than a fighting
world, can be led on without a noble chivalry of work, and laws and fixed rules which follow out of that--far nobler than any chivalry of fighting war.
No worth, known or unknown, can die even on this earth.
Nobilitatis virtus non stemma character
Nobility is a river that sets with a constant and undeviating current directly into the great Pacific Ocean of Time; but, unlike all other rivers, it is more grand at its source than at its termination.
Nobility of nature consists in doing good for the good's sake.
Nobility without virtue is a fine setting without
a gem.
Nobis non licet esse tam disertis, / Qui Musas colimus severiores
Noble art is nothing less than the expression of a great soul; and great souls are not common things.
Noble housekeepers need no doors.
Noble spirits war not with the dead.
Nobler is a limited command, / Given by the
love of all your native land, / Than a successive title, long and dark, / Drawn from the mouldy rolls of Noah's ark.
Noblesse oblige
Nobody calls himself rogue.
Nobody can continue easy in his own mind who does not endeavour to become least of all and servant of all.
Nobody can find work easy if much work do lie in him.
Nobody can live by teaching any more than
by learning; both teaching and learning are proper duties of human life, or pleasures of it, but have nothing whatever to do with the support of it.
Nobody contents himself with rough diamonds, or wears them so. When polished and set, then they give a lustre.
Nobody has a right to have opinions, but only knowledge.
Nobody knows who may be listening; say nothing which you would not wish put in the daily paper.
Nobody should be rich but those who understand it.
Nobody will persist long in helping those who
will not help themselves.
Nobody will use other people's experience, nor has any of his own till it is too late to use it.
Nobody would be afraid if he could help it.
Noces de Gamache
Nocet empta dolore voluptas
Noch ist es Tag, da rühre sich der Mann, /
Die Nacht tritt ein, wo niemand wirken kann
Noch lebt ein Gott, der meines Elends denkt!
Noch niemand entfloh dem verhängten Geschick
Noctemque diemque fatigat
Nocturna versate manu, versate diurna
Nodum in scirpo quæris
Noisome weeds that without profit suck / The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
Nolens volens
Noli irritare leones
Noli me tangere
Nolle prosequi
Nolo barbam vellere mortuo leoni
Nolo episcopari
Nom de guerre
Nom de plume
Nomen amicitia est; nomen inane fides
Nomen atque omen
Non adeo cecidi, quamvis abjectus, ut infra / Te quoque sim; inferius quo nihil esse potest
Non ætate verum ingenio adipiscitur sapientia
Non agitur de vectigalibus, non de sociorum
injuriis; libertas et anima nostra in dubio est
Non amo te, Sabidi, nec possum dicere quare; / Hoc tantum possum dicere, non amo te
Non Angli, sed angeli
Non aqua, sed ruina
Non assumpsit
Non bene conveniunt, nec in una sede morantur
/ Majestas et amor
Non bene imperat, nisi qui paruerit imperio
Non bene junctarum discordia semina rerum
Non c' è il peggior frutto di quello che non matura mai
Non ci è fumo senza fuoco
Non compos mentis
Non constat
Non convivere, nec videre saltem, / Non audire licet; nec Urbe tota / Quisquam est tam prope, tam proculque nobis
Non credo tempori
Non cuicunque datum est habere nasum
Non cuivis homini contingit adire Corinthum
Non decipitur qui scit se decipi
Non deerat voluntas, sed facultas
Non deficit alter
Non destare il can che dorme
Non è in alcun luogo chi è per tutto
Non è si tristo cane che non meni la coda
Non è uomo chi non sa dir di nò
Non è ver che sia la morte / Il peggior di tutti i mali; / E un sollievo pei mortali / Che non stanchi di soffrir
Non eadem est ætas, non mens
Non eadem ratio est, sentire et demere morbos: / Sensus inest cunctis; tollitur arte malum
Non ebur neque aureum / Mea renidet in domo
lacunar
Non ego avarum / Cum te veto fieri, vappam jubeo ac nebulonem
Non ego illam mihi dotem esse puto, quæ dos dicitur, / Sed pudicitiam, et pudorem, et sedatam cupidinem
Non ego mordaci distrinxi carmine quenquam; / Nec meus ullius crimina versus habet
Non ego omnino lucrum omne esse utile homini existimo
Non ego ventosæ venor suffragia plebis
Non enim gazæ neque consularis / Summovet lictor miseros tumultus / Mentis et curas laqueata circum / Tecta volantes
Non equidem invideo, miror magis
Non equidem studeo, bullatis ut mihi nugis / Pagina turgescat, dare pondus idonea fumo
Non erat his locus
Non esse cupidum pecunia est: non esse
emacem vectigal est
Non est ad astra mollis a terris via
Non est bonum ludere cum Diis
Non est de pastu omnium quæstio, sed de lana
Non est de sacco tanta farina tuo
Non est ejusdem et multa et opportuna dicere
Non est jocus esse malignum
Non est nostri ingenii
Non est vivere, sed valere, vita
Non exercitus, neque thesauri, præsidia regni sunt, verum amici
Non fa buon mangiar cireggie con signori
Non fumum ex fulgore, sed ex fumo dare lucem
Non generant aquilæ columbas
Non giudicar la nave stando in terra
Non hæc sine numine
Non han speranza di morte
Non hoc ista sibi tempus spectacula poscit
Non hominis culpa, sed ista loci
Non id quod magnum est pulchrum est, sed id quod pulchrum magnum
Non ignara mali miseris succurrere disco.
Non illa colo calathisve Minervæ / Femineas
assueta manus
Non immemor beneficii
Non in caro nidore voluptas / Summa, sed in teipso est, tu pulmentaria quære / Sudando
Non intelligitur quando obrepit senectus
Non intelligunt homines quam magnum vectigal sit parsimonia
Non la philosophie, mais le philosophisme causera des maux à la France
Non liquet
Non magni pendis, quia contigit
Non me pudet fateri nescire quod nesciam
Non mihi sapit qui sermone, sed qui factis sapit
Non mihi si linguæ centum sint oraque centum, / Ferrea vox, omnes scelerum comprendere formas / Omnia pœnarum percurrere nomina possim
Non missura cutem, nisi plena cruoris hirudo
Non multa, sed multum
Non nobis, Domine
Non nobis solum nati sumus
Non nostrum inter vos tantas componere lites
Non obstante veredicto
Non olet
Non omnes eadem mirantur amantque
Non omnia possumus omnes
Non omnibus dormio
Non omnis error stultitia est dicendus
Non omnis moriar; multaque pars mei / Vitabit Libitinam
Non opus est magnis placido lectore poetis; / Quamlibet invitum difficilemque tenent
Non placet quem scurræ laudant, manipulares mussitant
Non posse bene geri rempublicam multorum imperiis
Non possidentem multa vocaveris / Recte
beatum. Rectius occupat / Nomen beati, qui Deorum / Muneribus sapienter uti, / Duramque callet pauperiem pati, / Pejusque leto flagitium timet
Non possum ferre, Quirites, / Græcam urbem
Non potest severus esse in judicando, qui alios in se severos esse judices non vult
Non progredi est regredi
Non pronuba Juno, / Non Hymenæus adest, non illi Gratia lecto; / Eumenides stravere torum
Non purgat peccata qui negat
Non quam diu, sed quam bene vixeris refert
Non qui soletur, non qui labentia tarde / Tempora narrando fallat, amicus adest
Non ragioniam di lor; ma guarda, e passa
Non revertar inultus
Non satis est pulchra esse poëmata; dulcia
sunto, / Et quocumque volent animum auditoris agunto
Non scholæ, sed vitæ discimus
Non scribit, cujus carmina nemo legit
Non semper erit æstas
Non semper erunt Saturnalia
Non sequitur
Non si male nunc, et olim sic erit
Non sibi sed patriæ
Non sine numine
Non sum qualis eram
Non tali auxilio, nec defensoribus istis / Tempus
eget
Non tu corpus eras sine pectore. Di tibi formam, / Di tibi divitias dederant, artemque fruendi
Non usitata, nec tenui ferar penna
Non uti libet, sed uti licet, sic vivamus
Non v'è peggior ladro d'un cattivo libro
Non vixit male, qui natus moriensque fefellit
Nonchalance
Nondum omnium dierum sol occidit
None acts a friend by a deputy, or can be familiar by proxy.
None are all evil; quickening round his heart, / One softer feeling would not yet depart.
None are fair but who are kind.
None are more unjust in their judgments of
others than those who have a high opinion of themselves.
None are rash when they are not seen by anybody.
None are so desolate but something dear, / Dearer than self, possesses or possess'd / A thought, and claims the homage of a tear.
None are so fond of secrets as those who don't mean to keep them; such persons covet secrets as a spendthrift covets money--for the purpose of circulation.
None are so hopelessly enslaved as those who falsely believe they are free.
None are so seldom found alone, and are so
soon tired of their own company, as those coxcombs who are on the best terms with themselves.
None are so well shod but they may slip.
None but a fool is always right.
None but a fool would measure his satisfaction by what the world thinks of it.
None but a Goethe, at the sun of earthly happiness, can keep his Phœnix wings unsinged.
None but an author knows an author's cares, /
Or Fancy's fondness for the child she bears.
None but himself can be his parallel.
None but men of strong passions are capable of rising to greatness.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
None can cure their harms by wailing them.
None can pray well but he who lives well.
None ever saw the pillars of the firmament; yet it is supported.
None ever was a great poet that applied himself much to anything else.
None is so deaf as he who will not hear.
None is so wasteful as the scraping dame; / She loseth three for one--her soul, rest, fame.
None is so wretched as the poor man who maintains
the semblance of wealth.
None lie that would not steal.
None more impatiently suffer injuries than those that are most forward in doing them.
None of the affections have been noted to fascinate and bewitch but envy.
None of those who own the land own the landscape; only he whose eye can integrate all the parts, that is, the poet.
None of us can wrong the universe.
None of you can tell where the shoe pinches me.
None shun the light but criminals and evil spirits.
None so blind as they who will not see.
None so miserable as a man who wills everything and can do nothing.
None so wise but the advice of others may, at
some time or other, be useful and necessary for him.
None think the great unhappy but the great.
None without hope e'er loved the brightest fair; / But love can hope where reason would despair.
Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound / Reverbs no hollowness.
Nor by the wayside ruins let us mourn / Who have th' eternal towers for our appointed bourne.
Nor can either thy own resentment of misfortunes
within, or the violence of any calamity without, give thee sufficient grounds, from the terrible face thy present circumstances wear, to pronounce that all hope of escape and better days are past.
Nor deem the irrevocable past / As wholly wasted, wholly vain, / If, rising on its wrecks, at last / To something nobler we attain.
Nor e'en the tenderest heart, and next our own, / Knows half the reasons why we smile and sigh!
Nor e'er was to the bowers of bliss conveyed / A fairer spirit or more welcome shade.
Nor Fame I slight, nor for her favours call; / She comes unlook'd for, if she comes at all.
Nor grieve to die when far from home; you'll
find / To Hades everywhere a favouring wind.
Nor is it possible to thought / A greater than itself to know.
Nor less I deem that there are powers / Which of themselves our minds impress; / That we can feel this mind of ours / In a wide passiveness.
Nor love thy life, nor hate, but what thou liv'st / Live well, how long or short permit to heaven.
Nor sequent centuries could hit / Orbit and sum of Shakespeare's wit.
Nor sink those stars in empty night; / They
hide themselves in heaven's own light.
Noris quam elegans formarum spectator fiem
Nos duo turba sumus
Nos hæc novimus esse nihil
Nos nostraque Deo
Nos numerus sumus et fruges consumere nati
Nos patriæ fines et dulcia linquimus arva
Nos te, / Nos facimus, Fortuna, deam
Nosce tempus
Noscenda est mensura sui spectandaque rebus / In summis minimisque
Noscitur a sociis
Nosse omnia hæc salus est adolescentulis
Nosse volunt omnes, mercedem solvere nemo
Nostra nos sine comparatione delectant; nunquam
erit felix quem torquebit felicior
Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note, / As his corse to the rampart we hurried: / Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot, / O'er the grave where our hero we buried.
Not a flower, not a flower sweet, / On my black coffin let there be strewn; / Not a friend, not a friend greet / My poor corpse, where my bones shall be thrown; / A thousand, thousand sighs to save, / Lay me (what you will) O where / Sad lover ne'er find my grave, / To weep there.
Not a man, for being simply man, / Hath any honour, but honour for those honours / That are without him, as place, riches, favour, / Prizes of accident, as oft as merit.
Not a man of iron, but of live oak.
Not a Red Indian, hunting by Lake Winnipeg,
can quarrel with his squaw, but the whole world must smart for it. Will not the price of beaver rise?
Not a single shaft can hit / Till the God of love sees fit.
Not a vanity is given in vain.
Not all that heralds rake from coffin'd clay, / Nor florid prose, nor honeyed lines of rhyme, / Can blazon evil deeds or consecrate a crime.
Not all the water in the rough rude sea / Can wash the balm from an anointed king; / The breath of worldly men cannot depose / The deputy elected by the Lord.
Not alone to know, but to act according to
thy knowledge, is thy destination.
Not as a vulture, but a dove, / The Holy Ghost came from above.
Not body enough to cover his mind decently with; his intellect is improperly exposed.
Not brute force, but only persuasion and faith is the king of this world.
Not by levity of floating, but by stubborn force of swimming, shalt thou make thy way. A grand "vis inertiæ" in thee, Mr. Bull.
Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit,
saith the Lord.
Not by the law of force, but by the law of labour, has any man right to the possession of the land.
Not enjoyment, and not sorrow, / Is our destined end or way; / But to act that each to-morrow / May find us farther than to-day.
Not every parish priest can wear Dr. Luther's shoes.
Not fame, but that which it merits, is what a man should esteem.
Not for fellowship in hatred, but in love am I
here.
Not he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom the Lord commendeth.
Not he who has many ideas, but he who has one conviction may become a great man.
Not heaven itself upon the past has power; / But what has been, has been, and I have had my hour.
Not in a man's having no business with men, but in having no unjust business with them, and in having all manner of true and just business, can either his or their blessedness be found possible, and this waste world become, for both parties, a home and peopled garden.
Not in nature, but in man is all the beauty
and the worth he sees. The world is very empty, and is indebted to this gilding, exalting soul for its pride.
Not in pulling down, but in building up, does man find pure joy.
Not in the achievement, but in the endurance, of the human soul, does it show its divine grandeur and its alliance with the infinite God.
Not kings alone--the people too have their flatterers.
Not less in God's sight is the end of the day than the beginning.
Not liberty, but duty, is the condition of existence.
Not lost, but gone before.
Not many words are needed to refuse; by the refused the "no" alone is heard.
Not marble, nor the gilded monuments of princes, shall outlive this powerful rhyme.
Not misgovernment, nor yet no government; only government will now serve.
Not once or twice in our rough island-story, /
The path of duty was the way to glory: / He that walks it, only thirsting / For the right, and learns to deaden / Love of self, before his journey closes / He shall find the stubborn thistle bursting / Into glossy purples, which outredden / All voluptuous garden-roses.
Not one false man but does unaccountable mischief; how much, in a generation or two, will twenty-seven millions, mostly false, manage to accumulate?
Not one of our faculties that it is not a delight to exercise.
Not one of our senses that, in its healthy state, is not an avenue to enjoyment.
Not one word of any book is readable by you, except so far as your mind is one with its author's; and not merely his words like your words, but his thoughts like your thoughts.
Not only all common speech, but science, poetry itself, is no other, if thou consider it, than right naming.
Not only has the unseen world a reality, but
the only reality; the rest being, not metaphorically, but literally and in scientific strictness, "a show."
Not our logical, mensurative faculty, but our imaginative one is king over us; I might say, priest and prophet to lead us heavenward, or magician and wizard to lead us hellward.
Not so easily can a man tear up the roots of his old life, and transplant himself into a new soil and a foreign atmosphere.
Not that I loved Cæsar less, but that I loved Rome more.
Not the cry, but the flight of a wild duck, rouses the flock to fly and follow.
Not the glittering weapon fights the fight, but
the hero's heart.
Not the maker of plans and promises, but rather he who offers faithful service in small matters is most welcome to one who would achieve what is good and lasting.
Not this man and that man, but all men make up mankind, and their united tasks the task of mankind.
Not to attempt a gallant deed for which one has the impulse may be braver than the doing of it.
Not to believe in God, but to acknowledge Him when and wheresoever He reveals Himself, is the one sole blessedness of man on earth.
Not to desire or admire, if a man could learn
it, were more / Than a walk all day like the sultan of old in a garden of spice.
Not to know me argues yourselves unknown.
Not to know what has been transacted in former times is to continue always a child.
Not to return one good office for another is inhuman; but to return evil for good is diabolical.
Not to see the wood for the trees
Not to speak your opinion well, but to have a
good and just opinion worth speaking; for every Parliament, as for every man, this latter is the point.
Not to talk of thy doing, and become the envy of surrounding flunkeys, but to taste of the fruit of thy doings themselves, is thine.
Not towards the impossibility, self-government of a multitude by a multitude; but towards some possibility, government by the wisest, does bewildered Europe now struggle.
Not what I Have, but what I Do is my Kingdom.
Not what the man knows, but what he wills, determines his worth or unworth, his strength or weakness, his happiness or misery.
Not what we wish, but what we want, / Oh,
let thy grace supply.
Not when I rise above, only when I rise to, something, do I approve myself.
Not where they dash ashore and break and moan are waters deadliest.
Not without a shudder may a human hand clutch into the mysterious urn of destiny.
Note bene
Notandi sunt tibi mores
Note how the falcon starts at every sight, / New from his hood, but what a quiet eye / Cometh of freedom.
Noth bricht Eisen-
Noth kennt kein Gebot
Noth lehrt beten
Nothing altogether passes away without result.
We are here to leave that behind us which will never die.
Nothing amuses more harmlessly than computation, and nothing is oftener applicable to real business or speculative inquiries. A thousand stories which the ignorant tell and believe die away at once when the computist takes them in his grip.
Nothing astonishes men so much as common sense and plain dealing.
Nothing at bottom is interesting to the majority of men but themselves.
Nothing becomes him ill that he would well.
Nothing but a handful of dust will fill the eye
of man.
Nothing but ourselves can finally beat us.
Nothing can atone for the want of modesty, without which beauty is ungraceful and wit detestable.
Nothing can be beautiful which is not true.
Nothing can be done at once hastily and prudently.
Nothing can be hostile to religion which is
agreeable to justice.
Nothing can be made of nothing; he who has laid up no material can produce no combinations.
Nothing can be more fatal in politics than a preponderance of the philosophical, or in philosophy than a preponderance of the political, spirit.
Nothing can be preserved but what is good.
Nothing can be so injurious to progress as to be altogether blamed or altogether praised.
Nothing can be termed mine own but what I
make my own by using well.
Nothing can bring you peace but yourself; nothing, but the triumph of principles.
Nothing can come out of a sack that is not in it.
Nothing can ferment itself to clearness in a colander.
Nothing can need a lie; / A fault, which needs it most, grows two thereby.
Nothing can overtake an untruth if it has a
minute's start.
Nothing can work me damage except myself.
Nothing comes amiss, so money comes withal.
Nothing comes amiss to a hungry man.
Nothing contributes so much to cheerfulness as health, or so little as riches.
Nothing costs less or is cheaper than compliments
of civility.
Nothing deepens and intensifies family traits like poverty and toil and suffering. It is the furnace heat that brings out the characters, the pressure that makes the strata perfect.
Nothing destroyeth authority so much as the unequal and untimely interchange of power pressed too far and relaxed too much.
Nothing dies, nothing can die. No idlest word thou speakest but is a seed cast into time, and grows through all eternity.
Nothing does so much honour to a woman as her patience, and nothing does her so little as the patience of her husband.
Nothing done by man in the past has any
deeper sense than what he is doing now.
Nothing doth so fool a man as extreme passion.
Nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy.
Nothing endears so much a friend as sorrow for his death. The pleasure of his company has not so powerful an influence.
Nothing exceeds in ridicule, no doubt, / A fool in fashion, save a fool that's out; / His passion for absurdity's so strong, / He cannot bear a rival in the throng.
Nothing exposes us more to madness than
distinguishing ourselves from others, and nothing more contributes to maintain our common-sense than living in community of feeling with other people.
Nothing extenuate, / Nor set down aught in malice; then must you speak / Of one, that loved not wisely, but too well ... of one, whose hand / Like the base Indian, threw a pearl away, / Richer than all his tribe.
Nothing for nothing.
Nothing for nothing, and very little for a halfpenny.
Nothing gives such a blow to friendship as the detecting another in an untruth. It strikes at the root of our confidence ever after.
Nothing good bursts forth all at once. The
lightning may dart out of a black cloud; but the day sends his bright heralds before him to prepare the world for his coming.
Nothing great is lightly won, nothing won is lost; / Every good deed nobly done will repay the cost.
Nothing hath got so far / But man hath caught and kept it as his prey; / His eyes dismount the highest star; / He is in little all the sphere.
Nothing hitherto was ever stranded, cast aside; but all, were it only a withered leaf, works together with all; is borne forward on the bottomless, shoreless flood of action, and lives through perpetual metamorphoses.
Nothing in haste save catching fleas.
Nothing in his life / Became him like the
leaving it; he died / As one that had been studied in his death / To throw away the dearest thing he owed, / As 'twere a careless trifle.
Nothing in itself deformed or incongruous can give us any real satisfaction.
Nothing in love can be premeditated; it is as a power divine, that thinks and feels within us, unswathed by our control.
Nothing in Nature, much less conscious being, / Was e'er created solely for itself.
Nothing in the dealings of Heaven with Earth is so wonderful to me as the way in which the evil angels are allowed to spot, pervert, and bring to nothing, or to worse, the powers of the greatest men: so that Greece must be ruined, for all that Plato can say; Geneva, for all that Calvin can say; England, for all that Sir Thomas More and Bacon can say; and only Gounod's "Faust" to be the visible outcome to Europe of the school of Weimar.
Nothing in the world is more haughty than a
man of moderate capacity when once raised to power.
Nothing is a misery, / Unless our weakness apprehend it so; / We cannot be more faithful to ourselves / In anything that's manly, than to make / Ill-fortune as contemptible to us / As it makes us to others.
Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind. Absolve yourself to yourself, and you shall have the suffrage of the world.
Nothing is but what is not.
Nothing is cheap if you don't want it.
Nothing is constant but a virtuous mind.
Nothing is denied to well-directed labour; nothing is ever to be attained without it.
Nothing is difficult; it is only we who are indolent.
Nothing is easier than to clear debts by borrowing.
Nothing is endless but inanity.
Nothing is fair or good alone.
Nothing is farther than earth from heaven, and nothing is nearer than heaven to earth.
Nothing is given so ungrudgingly as advice.
Nothing is good for a nation but that which arises from its core and its own general wants.
Nothing is good I see without respect.
Nothing is good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
Nothing is graceful that is not our own.
Nothing is high because it is in a high place, and nothing low because it is in a low one.
Nothing is impossible to the man who can
will.
Nothing is insipid to the wise; / To thee insipid all but what is mad; / Joy season'd high and tasting strong of guilt.
Nothing is lasting that is feigned.
Nothing is less in our power than the heart, and, far from commanding it, we are forced to obey it.
Nothing is law that is not reason.
Nothing is more active than thought, for it
flies over the universe; nothing stronger than necessity, for all must submit to it.
Nothing is more binding than the friendship of companions-in-arms.
Nothing is more certain than that great poets are no sudden prodigies, but slow results.
Nothing is more characteristic of a man than his behaviour towards fools.
Nothing is more common than mutual dislike, where mutual approbation is particularly expected.
Nothing is more common than to express exceeding
zeal in amending our neighbours, ... while at the same time we neglect the beginning at home.
Nothing is more deeply punished than the neglect of the affinities by which alone society should be formed, and the insane levity of choosing associates by others' eyes.
Nothing is more disgusting than the crowing about liberty by slaves.
Nothing is more easy than to clear debts by borrowing.
Nothing is more free than the imagination of man.
Nothing is more hurtful to a truth than an
old error.
Nothing is more natural than that we should grow giddy at a great sight which comes unexpectedly before us, to make us feel at once our littleness and our greatness. But there is not in the world any truer enjoyment than at the moment when we are thus made giddy for the first time.
Nothing is more ruinous for a man than when he is mighty enough in any part to right himself without right.
Nothing is more significant of the philosophy of a man than the footing on which he stands with his body. The Cynic neglects it, the Sybarite makes profit out of it, the Trappist disowns it, and the Idealist forgets it.
Nothing is more surprising than the easiness with which the many are governed by the few.
Nothing is more terrible than ignorance in
action.
Nothing is more unjust or capricious than public opinion.
Nothing is more vulgar than haste.
Nothing is more offensive to reason
than an appeal to the majority; it consists of a few powerful leaders, of rogues who accommodate themselves, of weaklings who assimilate themselves, and of the mass who follow confusedly, without in the least knowing what they would be at.
Nothing is new; we walk where others went; / There's no vice now but has its precedent.
Nothing is of any value in books excepting the
transcendental and extraordinary.
Nothing is old but the mind.
Nothing is perfect until, in some way, it touches or passes through man.
Nothing is permanently helpful to any race or condition of men but the spirit that is in their own hearts, kindled by the love of their native land.
Nothing is pleasant that is not spiced with variety.
Nothing is poetry which does not transport;
the lyre is a winged instrument.
Nothing is profane that serveth to holy things.
Nothing is quite beautiful alone; nothing but is beautiful in the whole.
Nothing is rarer than the use of a word in its exact meaning.
Nothing is safe from fault-finders.
Nothing is secret that shall not be made
manifest; neither anything hid that shall not be known.
Nothing is so atrocious as fancy without taste.
Nothing is so beautiful to the eye as truth is to the mind; nothing so deformed and irreconcilable to the understanding as a lie.
Nothing is so perfectly amusement as a total change of ideas.
Nothing is so conceivable
child, nothing seems to be so natural to him, as the marvellous or supernatural.
Nothing is so dangerous as an ignorant friend.
Nothing is so difficult as to help a friend in matters which do not require the aid of friendship, but only a cheap and trivial service, if your friendship wants the basis of a thorough practical acquaintance.
Nothing is so envied as genius, nothing so hopeless of attainment by labour alone. Though labour always accompanies the greatest genius, without the intellectual gift labour alone will do little.
Nothing is so grand as truth, nothing so forcible, nothing so novel.
Nothing is so great an instance of ill-manners as flattery. If you flatter all the company, you please none; if you flatter only one or two, you affront the rest.
Nothing is so narrowing, contracting, hardening,
as always to be moving in the same groove, with no thought beyond what we immediately see and hear close around us.
Nothing is so new as what has been long forgotten.
Nothing is so uncertain as the minds of the multitude.
Nothing is superficial to a deep observer. It is in trifles that the mind betrays itself.
Nothing is there to come, and nothing past, / But an eternal now does always last.
Nothing is thoroughly approved but mediocrity.
The majority has established this, and it fixes its fangs on whatever gets beyond it either way.
Nothing is thought rare / Which is not new and followed; yet we know / That what was worn some twenty years ago / Comes into grace again.
Nothing is to be preferred before justice.
Nothing is too high for a man to reach, but he must climb with care and confidence.
Nothing is true but what is simple.
Nothing is truly elegant but what unites use
with beauty.
Nothing leads to good which is not natural.
Nothing lovelier can be found / In woman than to study household good, / And good works in her husband to promote.
Nothing makes love sweeter and tenderer than a little previous scolding and freezing, just as the grape-clusters acquire by a frost before vintage thinner skins and better flavour.
Nothing makes the earth seem so spacious as to have friends at a distance; they make the latitudes and longitudes.
Nothing marks the character of a young man
more than a failure.
Nothing more readily pleases a vulgar mind than to find anomalies in conduct or character.
Nothing noble or godlike in the world but has in it something of "infinite sadness."
Nothing not a reality ever yet got men to pay bed and board to it for long.
Nothing on earth is without difficulty. Only the inner impulse, the pleasure it gives and love enable us to surmount obstacles; to make smooth our way, and lift ourselves out of the narrow grooves in which other people sorrowfully distress themselves.
Nothing on earth is without significance, but
the first and most essential in every matter is the place where and the hour when.
Nothing, or almost nothing, is certain to me, except the Divine Infernal character of this universe I live in, worthy of horror, worthy of worship.
Nothing pleaseth but rare accidents.
Nothing preaches better than the ant, and she says nothing.
Nothing precludes sympathy so much as a perfect indifference to it.
Nothing really pleasant or unpleasant subsists
by nature, but all things become so by habit.
Nothing recommends a man more to the female mind than courage.
Nothing remains to man, nothing is possible to him of true joy, but in the righteous love of his fellows, in the knowledge of the laws and the glory of God, and in the daily use of the faculties of soul and body with which God has endowed him.
Nothing resembles pride so much as discouragement.
Nothing right can be accomplished in art without enthusiasm.
Nothing seems important to me but so far as
it is connected with morals.
Nothing so difficult as a beginning / In poesy, except perhaps the end; / For oftentimes when Pegasus seems winning / The race, he sprains a wing, and down we tend, / Like Lucifer, when hurl'd from heaven for sinning.
Nothing so effectively disconcerts the schemes of sinister people as the tranquillity of great souls.
Nothing so endures as a truly spoken word.
Nothing so lifts a man from all his mean imprisonments, were it but for moments, as true admiration.
Nothing so much contents us as that which
confounds us.
Nothing so much prevents our being natural as the desire of appearing so.
Nothing stands in need of lying but a lie.
Nothing stings so bitterly as loss of money.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Nothing that has ever lived is lost; nothing is
useless; not a sigh, a joy, or a sorrow which has not served its purpose.
Nothing that is violent is permanent.
Nothing that lives is or can be rigidly perfect; part of it is decaying, part nascent. The foxglove blossom--a third part bud, a third part past, a third part in full bloom--is a type of the life of this world.
Nothing truly can be made mine own but what I make mine own by using well.
Nothing venture, nothing win.
Nothing weighs lighter than a promise.
Nothing which is unjust can hope to continue in this world.
Nothing will be mended by complaints.
Nothing's more dull and negligent / Than an old lazy government, / That knows no interest of state, / But such as serves a present strait, / And, to patch up or shift, will close, / Or break alike, with friends or foes.
Notre défiance justifie la tromperie d'autrui
Notre vie est du vent tissu
Notwithstanding this great proximity of man to himself, we still remain ignorant of many things concerning ourselves.
Nought can be gained by a Sabbath profaned.
Nought else there is / But that weird beat of Time, which doth disjoin / To-day from Hellas.
Nought is so vile that on the earth doth live, / But to the earth some special good doth give; / Nor aught so good, but, strain'd from that fair use, / Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse.
Nought so stockish, hard, and full of rage, / But music for the time doth change its nature.
Nought treads so silent as the foot of time.
Nourri dans le sérail, j'en connais les détours
Nous avons changé tout cela
Nous avons tous assez de force pour supporter les maux d'autrui
Nous dansons sur un volcan
Nous désirerions peu de choses avec ardeur, si nous connaissions parfaitement ce que nous désirons
Nous maintiendrons
Nous n'écoutons d'instincts que ceux qui sont
les nôtres, / Et ne croyons le mal que quand il est venu
Nous ne savons ce que c'est que le bonheur ou le malheur absolu
Nous ne sommes hommes, et nous tenons les uns aux autres, que par la parole
Nous ne trouvons guère de gens de bon sens que ceux qui sont de notre avis
Nous ne vivons jamais, mais nous esperons de vivre
Nous sommes assemblés par la volonté nationale,
nous ne sortirons que par la force
Nous sommes mieux seul qu'avec un sot
Nous verrons, dit l'aveugle
Novacula in cotem
Novels are tales of adventures which did not occur in God's creation, but only in the waste chambers (to be let unfurnished) of certain human heads, and which are part and parcel only of the sum of nothings; which, nevertheless, obtain some temporary remembrance, and lodge extensively at this epoch of the world in similar, still more unfurnished, chambers.
Novels are the journal or record of manners;
and the new importance of these books derives from the fact that the novelist begins to penetrate the surface, and treat this part of life more worthily.
Novels for most part instil into young minds false views of life.
Novelty has something in it that inebriates the fancy, and not unfrequently dissipates and fumes away like other intoxication, and leaves the poor patient, as usual, with an aching heart.
Novelty is only in request; and it is as dangerous to be aged in any kind of course, as it is virtuous to be constant in any undertaking.
Novi ego hoc sæculum, moribus quibus siet
Novi ingenium mulierum, / Nolunt ubi velis,
ubi nolis cupiunt ultro
Novos amicos dum paras, veteres cole
Novum et ad hunc diem non auditum
Novus homo
Now an incredible deal is demanded, and every avenue is barred.
Now farewell light, thou sunshine bright, /
And all beneath the sky! / May coward shame distain his name, / The wretch that dares not die.
Now, good digestion wait on appetite, / And health on both.
Now is now, and Yule's in winter.
"Now" is the watchword of the wise.
Now! it is gone. Our brief hours travel post, / Each with its thought or deed, its Why or How; / But know, each parting hour gives up a ghost / To dwell within thee--an eternal Now!
Now join your hands, and with your hands
your hearts, / That no dissension hinder government.
Now morn her rosy steps in th' eastern clime, / Advancing, sowed the earth with orient pearl.
Now our fates from unmomentous things / May rise like rivers out of little springs.
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason, / Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune, and harsh; / That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth / Blasted with ecstacy: O, woe is me, / To have seen what I have seen, see what I see.
Now the heart is so full that a drop overfills it; / We are happy now, because God wills it.
Now 'tis the spring, and weeds are shallow-rooted;
/ Suffer them now, and they'll o'ergrow the garden, / And choke the herbs for want of husbandry.
Now you have feathered your nest.
Nowadays compromise and indifference rule supreme, and instead of solid grit we have putty or wax.
Nowadays truth is news.
Nowhere can a man get real root-room, and spread out his branches till they touch the morning and the evening, but in his own house.
Nox atra cava circumvolat
Noxiæ pœna par esto
Nuda veritas
Nudum pactum
Nugæ canoræ
Nugis addere pondus
Nul n'aura de l'esprit, / Hors nous et nos amis
Nul n'est content de sa fortune, ni mécontent de son esprit
Nulla ætas ad perdiscendum est
Nulla dies sine linea
Nulla falsa doctrina est, quæ non permisceat aliquid veritatis
Nulla fere causa est, in qua non fœmina litem moverit
Nulla fides regni sociis, omnisque potestas / Impatiens consortis erit
Nulla pallescere culpa
Nulla placere diu, vel vivere carmina possunt /
Quæ scribuntur aquæ potoribus
Nulla res tantum ad discendum profuit quantum scriptio
Nulla unquam de vita hominis cunctatio longa est
Nulli jactantius mœrent, quam qui maxime lætantur
Nulli secundus
Nulli te facias nimis sodalem, / Gaudebis
minus et minus dolebis
Nullius addictus jurare in verba magistri, / Quo me cunque rapit tempestas, deferor hospes
Nullius boni sine socio jucunda possessio
Nullius in verba
Nullum est jam dictum quod non dictum sit prius
Nullum est malum majus, quam non posse
ferre malum
Nullum est sine nomine saxum
Nullum magnum ingenium sine mixtura dementiæ fuit
Nullum magnum malum quod extremum est
Nullum numen abest si sit prudentia
Nullum numen habes si sit prudentia; nos te /
Nos facimus, Fortuna, deam cœloque locamus
Nullum quod tetigit non ornavit
Nullum simile quatuor pedibus currit
Nullum tempus occurrit regi
Nullus argento color est, / Nisi temperato / Splendeat usu
Nullus commodum capere potest de injuria sua
propria
Nullus dolor est quem non longinquitas temporis minuat ac molliat
Nullus est liber tam malus, ut non aliqua parte prosit
Numbers err in this: / Ten censure wrong for one who writes amiss.
Numerical inquiries will give you entertainment in solitude by the practice, and reputation in public by the effect.
Nunc animis opus, Ænea, nunc pectore firmo
Nunc aut nunquam
Nunc dimittis
Nunc est bibendum, nunc pede libero, / Pulsanda tellus!
Nunc patimur longæ pacis mala; sævior armis / Luxuria incubuit, victumque ulciscitur orbem
Nunc positis novus exuviis nitidusque juventa
Nunc vino pellite curas!
Nunquam aliud natura, aliud sapientia dicit
Nunquam erit alienis gravis, qui suis se concinnat levem
Nunquam est fidelis cum potente societas
Nunquam libertas gratior extat / Quam sub
rege pio
Nunquam nimis dicitur, quod nunquam satis discitur
Nunquam non paratus
Nunquam retrorsum
Nunquam se plus agere, quam nihil quum ageret; nunquam minus solum esse, quam quum solus esset
Nunquam vir æquus dives evasit cito
Nuptial love maketh mankind; friendly love perfecteth it; but wanton love corrupteth and embaseth it.
Nur aus vollendeter Kraft blicket die Anmuth hervor
Nur das Gemeine / Verkennt man selten. Und
das Seltene / Vergisst man schwerlich
Nur das Leben hasst, der Tod versöhnt
Nur das zu thun, was alle wollen, / Ist das Geheimniss jeder Macht
Nur dem Fröhlichen blüht der Baum des Lebens, / Dem Unschuldigen rinnt der Born der Jugend / Auch noch im Alter
Nur dem vertrau' ich völlig, nur der imponirt nachhaltig, der über sich zu lächeln fähig ist
Nur der Freundschaft Harmonie / Mildert die
Beschwerden; / Ohne ihre Sympathie / Ist kein Glück auf Erden
Nur der Glaube aller stärkt den Glauben, / Wo Tausende anbeten und verehren, / Da wird die Glut zur Flamme, und beflügelt / Schwingt sich der Geist in alle Himmel auf
Nur der Irrthum ist das Leben, / Und das Wissen ist der Tod
Nur der Irrthum ist unser Teil, und Wahn ist unsre Wissenschaft
Nur der ist wahrhaft arm, der weder Geist noch Kraft hat
Nur der Starke wird das Schicksal zwingen, /
Wenn der Schwächling untersinkt
Nur die Hoffenden leben
Nur die Lumpe sind bescheiden, / Brave freuen sich der That
Nur eine Mutter weiss allein, / Was lieben heisst und glücklich sein
Nur eine Schmach weiss ich auf dieser Erde. / Und die heisst: Unrecht thun
Nur eine Weisheit führt zum Ziele, / Doch
ihrer Sprüche giebt es viele
Nur Helios vermag's zu sagen, / Der alles Irdische bescheint
Nur immer zu! wir wollen es ergründen, / In deinem Nichts hoff' ich das All zu finden
Nur in der eignen Kraft ruht das Schicksal jeder Nation
Nur in der Schule selbst ist die eigentliche Vorschule
Nur in schwülen Prüfungsstunden / Sprosst
die Palme, die den Sieger krönt
Nur in Träumen wohnt das Glück der Erde
Nur Liebe darf der Liebe Blume brechen
Nur stets zu sprechen, ohne was zu sagen, / Das war von je der Redner grösste Gabe
Nur vom Edeln kann das Edle stammen
Nur vom Nutzen wird die Welt regiert
Nur was wir selber glauben, glaubt man uns
Nur wer die Last wirklich selbst trägt, kennt ihr Gewicht
Nur wer die Sehnsucht kennt / Weiss, was ich leide!
Nur wer sich recht des Lebens freut, / Trägt leichter, was es Schlimmes beut
Nur wer vor Gott sich fühlet klein / Kann vor
den Menschen mächtig sein
Nur zwei Tugenden giebt's. O, wären sie immer vereinigt, / Immer die Güte auch gross, immer die Grösse auch gut!
Nursing her wrath to keep it warm.
Nusquam tuta fides
Nutrimentum spiritus
Nutritur vento, vento restinguitur ignis: / Lenis alit flammas, grandior aura necat!
Nuts are given us, but we must crack them ourselves.
Nymph, in thy orisons / Be all my sins remembered.
O banish the tears of children! Continual rains upon the blossoms are hurtful.
O bitte um Leben noch! du fühlst, mit deinen
Mängeln, / Dass du noch wandeln kannst nicht unter Gottes Engeln
O blicke nicht nach dem was jedem fehlt; / Betrachte, was noch einem jeden bleibt
O cæca nocentum / Consilia, O semper timidum scelus!
O cives, cives, quærenda pecunia primum est; /
Virtus post nummos
O Corydon, Corydon, secretum divitis ullum / Esse putas? Servi ut taceant, jumenta loquentur, / Et canis, et postes, et marmora
O cunning enemy, that, to catch a saint, / With saints dost bait thy hook.
O curvæ in terris animæ et cœlestium inanes!
O das Leben hat Reize, die wir nie gekannt
O das Leben ist ein langer, langer Seufzer
vor dem Ausgehen des Athmens
O dass die Weisheit halb so eifrig wäre / Nach Schülern und Bekehrten, als der Spott
O dass es ewig bliebe, / Das Doppelglück der Töne wie der Liebe
O dass sie ewig' grünen bliebe / Die schöne Zeit der jungen Liebe
O dearest, dearest boy, my heart / For better love would seldom yearn, / Could I but teach the hundredth part / Of what from thee I learn.
O der Magnet des Wahns zieht mächtig
O ein Fürst hat keinen Freund, kann keinen Freund haben
O faciles dare summa Deos, eademque tueri / Difficiles
O fallacem hominum spem
O flesh, flesh, how thou art fishified.
O formose puer, nimium ne crede colori
O fortunate adolescens, qui tuæ virtutis Homerum præconem inveneris
O fortunatos nimium, sua si bona norint, / Agricolas, quibus ipsa, procul discordibus armis, / Fundit humo facilem victum justissima tellus
O foulest Circæan draught! thou poison of popular applause; madness is in thee, and death; thy end is bedlam and the grave.
O glücklich! wer noch hoffen kann, / Aus diesem Meer des Irrtums aufzutauchen. / Was man nicht weiss, das eben brauchte man, / Und was man weiss, kann man nicht brauchen
O God, that bread should be so dear, / And
flesh and blood so cheap!
O Gott! das Leben ist doch schön
O Gott, wie schränkt sich Welt und Himmel ein, / Wenn unser Herz in seinen Schranken banget
O guard thy roving thoughts with jealous care, for speech is but the dial-plate of thought; and every fool reads plainly in thy words what is the hour of thy thought.
O' guid advisement comes nae ill.
O Heaven! were man / But constant, he were
perfect; that one error / Fills him with faults; makes him run through all sins.
O Herz, versuch' es nur! so leicht ist's gut zu sein: / Und es zu scheinen ist so eine schwere Pein
O homines ad servitutem paratos!
O how full of briars is this working-day world.
O how wretched / Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favours! / There is betwixt that smile he would aspire to, / That sweet aspect of princes, and their ruin, / More pangs and fears than wars or women have; / And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer, / Never to hope again.
O hush the noise, ye men of strife, / And hear the angels sing!
O, if this were seen, / The happiest youth--viewing his progress through / What perils past, what crosses to ensue--/ Would shut the book and sit him down and die.
O ja, dem Herrn ist alles Kinderspiel
O judgment, thou art fled to brutish beasts, / And men have lost their reason!
O kaum bezwingen wir das eigne Herz; / Wie soll die rasche Jugend sich bezähmen!
O l'amour d'une mère! amour que nul n'oublie! / Pain merveilleux, que Dieu partage et multiplie! / Table toujours servie au paternel foyer! / Chacun en a sa part, et tous l'ont tout entier
O Leben, wie bist du so bitter und hart
O let my books be then the eloquence / And
dumb presagers of my speaking breast.
O let thy vow, / First made to heaven, first be to heaven perform'd.... It is religion that doth make vows kept.
"O Liberty, what crimes have been committed in thy name!"
O Life, an age to the miserable, a moment to the happy.
O life! how pleasant is thy morning, / Young Fancy's rays the hills adorning! / Cold-pausing Caution's lessons scorning, / We frisk away, / Like schoolboys at th' expected warning, / To joy and play.
O life! thou art a galling load / Along a rough,
a weary road, / To wretches such as I!
O Lord, that lend'st me life, / Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness!
O love, be moderate, allay thy ecstasy; / In measure rain thy joy; scant this excess; / I feel too much thy blessing! Make it less, / For fear I surfeit.
O magna vis veritatis, quæ ... facile se per se ipsa defendit
O major tandem, parcas, insane, minori
O mighty Cæsar! dost thou lie so low? / Are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils, / Shrunk to this little measure?
O mihi præteritos referat si Jupiter annos!
O miseras hominum mentes! O pectora cæca!
O miseri quorum gaudia crimen habent!
O most lame and impotent conclusion!
O munera nondum / Intellecta Deum
O my prophetic soul! mine uncle.
O Nature! Ha! why do I not name thee God? Art thou not the "living garment of God?" O Heavens! is it, in very deed, He then that ever speaks through thee; that lives and loves in thee, that lives and loves in me?
O never / Shall sun that morrow see.
O nimium nimiumque oblite tuorum
O nimm der Stunde wahr, eh' sie entschlüpft. / So selten kommt der Augenblick im Leben / Der wahrhaft wichtig ist und gross
O noctes cœnæque deum!
O passi graviora!
O place and greatness, millions of false eyes / Are stuck upon thee! Volumes of report / Run with these false and most contrarious quests / Upon thy doings! thousand scapes of wit / Make thee the father of their idle dreams, / And rack thee in their fancies.
O pudor! O pietas!
O purblind race of miserable men! / How many among us at this very hour / Do forge a lifelong trouble for ourselves, / By taking true for false, or false for true; / Here, thro' the feeble twilight of this world / Groping, how many, until we pass and reach / That other, where we see as we are seen!
O qualis facies et quali digna tabella!
O quanta species cerebrum non habet!
O quantum in rebus inane!
O ruin'd piece of nature! This great world / Shall so wear out to nought.
O rus quando te aspiciam? quandoque licebit / Nunc veterum libris, nunc somno et inertibus horis / Ducere sollicitæ jucunda oblivia vitæ?
O sancta damnatio!
O sancta simplicitas!
O si tacuisses, philosophus mansisses
O sleep, / It is a gentle thing, / Beloved from
pole to pole!
O sleep, O gentle sleep, / Nature's soft nurse! how have I frighted thee, / That thou no more wilt weigh my eyelids down, / And steep my senses in forgetfulness!
O sons of earth, attempt ye still to rise, / By mountains piled on mountains, to the skies? / Heav'n still with laughter the vain toil surveys, / And buries madmen in the heaps they raise.
O sprich mir nicht von jener bunten Menge / Bei deren Anblick uns der Geist entflieht
O süsse Stimme! Willkommener Ton / Der Muttersprach in einem fremden Lande!
O tempora, O mores!
O that estates, degrees, and offices / Were not derived corruptly, and that clear honour / Were purchased by the merit of the wearer! / How many then would cover that stand bare; / How many be commanded that command; / How much low peasantry would then be glean'd / From the true seed of honour; and how much honour, / Pick'd from the chaff and ruin of the times, / To be new-varnish'd.
O that men's ears should be / To counsel deaf, but not to flattery!
O that way madness lies.
O that you could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks, and make but an interior survey of your good selves!
O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom
and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are His judgments, and His ways past finding out!
O the wound of conscience is no scar, and Time cools it not with his wing, but merely keeps it open with his scythe.
O these deliberate fools, when they do choose / They have the wisdom by their wit to lose.
O these naughty times / Put bars between the owners and their rights.
O Thor, wer nicht im Augenblick den wahren Augenblick ergreift, / Wer, was er liebt, im Auge, und dennoch nach der Seite schweift
O Thou, / Passionless bride, divine Tranquillity,
/ ... Thou carest not / How roughly men may woo thee, so they win!
O thou who hast still a father and a mother, thank God for it in the day when thy soul is full of joyful tears, and needs a bosom wherein to shed them.
O thoughts of men accurst! / Past and to come seem best; things present, worst.
O Tugend, Tugend, wie schön bist du! / Welch' göttlich Meisterstück sind Seelen, / Die sich hinauf bis zu dir erheben
O wad some pow'r the giftie gie us / To see oursels as others see us! / It wad frae mony a blunder free us, / And foolish notion; / What airs in dress and gait wad lea'e us, / And e'en devotion!
O Wahrheit, deinen edeln Wein / Musst du
mit Wasser mischen; / Denn willst du ihn rein auftischen, / So nimmt er den Kopf den Gästen ein
O was im Traum die innre Stimme spricht / Das wird uns Wahrheit, wenn die Sonne leuchtet
O was müssen wir der Kirche Gottes halber leiden, rief der Abt, als ihm das gebratene Huhn die Finger versengte
O was sind wir Grossen auf der Woge der Menschheit? Wir glauben sie zu beherrschen, und sie treibt uns auf und nieder, hin und her
O well for him whose will is strong! / He suffers, but he will not suffer long; / He suffers, but he cannot suffer wrong.
O wer weiss, / Was in der Zeiten Hintergrunde
schlummert?
O what a goodly outside falsehood hath!
O what a noble mind is here o'erthrown! / The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's eye, tongue, sword; / The expectancy and rose of the fair state, / The glass of fashion, and the mould of form, / The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
O what a tangled web we weave / When first we practise to deceive.
O what a world is this, when what is comely / Envenoms him that bears it!
O what a world of vile ill-favoured faults /
Looks handsome in three hundred pounds a-year!
O what men dare do! what men may do! / What men daily do, not knowing what they do!
O woman! in our hours of ease / Uncertain, coy, and hard to please, / And variable as the shade / By the light of quivering aspen made; / When pain and anguish wring the brow, / A ministering angel thou.
O ye loved ones, that already sleep in the noiseless Bed of Rest, whom in life I could only weep for and never help; and ye who, wide-scattered, still toil lonely in the monster-bearing desert, dyeing the flinty ground with your blood,--yet a little while, and we shall all meet There, and our Mother's bosom will screen us all; and Oppression's harness, and Sorrow's fire-whip, and all the Gehenna bailiffs that patrol and inhabit ever-vexed Time, cannot thenceforth harm us any more.
O yet we trust that somehow good / Will be the final goal of ill.
Oaks fall when reeds stand.
Oars alone can ne'er prevail / To reach the
distant coast; / The breath of heav'n must swell the sail, / Or all the toil is lost.
Oaths are straws, ... and holdfast is the only dog.
Ob es vom Herzen kommt, das magst du leicht verstehen: / Denn was vom Herzen kommt, muss dir zum Herzen gehen
Obedience alone gives the right to command.
Obedience is better than sacrifice.
Obedience is our universal duty and destiny;
wherein whoso will not bend must break.
Obedience is the bond of rule.
Obedience is woman's duty on earth; hard endurance is her heavy lot; by severe service she must be purified; but she who has served here is great up yonder.
Obey something, and you will have a chance of finding out what is best to obey. But if you begin by obeying nothing, you will end by obeying Beelzebub and all his seven invited friends.
Obey thy parents; keep thy word justly; swear not; set not thy sweet heart on proud array.
Obiter cantare
Obiter dicta
Obiter dictum
Objects close to the eye shut out much larger objects on the horizon; and splendours born only of the earth eclipse the stars. So a man sometimes covers up the entire disc of eternity with a dollar, and quenches transcendent glories with a little shining dust.
Objects imperfectly discerned take forms from the hope or fear of the beholder.
Objects in pictures should be so arranged as
by their very position to tell their own story.
Oblatam occasionem tene
Obligation is thraldom, and thraldom is hateful.
Oblivion is the dark page whereon memory writes her light-beam characters and makes them legible; were it all light, nothing could be read there, any more than if it were all darkness.
Oblivion is the rule, and fame the exception, of humanity.
Oblivion is the second death, which great
minds dread more than the first.
Obreros a no ver dineros a perder
Obruat illud male partum, male retentum, male gestum imperium
Obscuris vera involvens
Obscurity and affectation are the two great faults of style.
Obscurity and Innocence, twin-sisters, escape
temptations which would pierce their gossamer armour in contact with the world.
Obscurum per obscurius
Obsequium amicos, veritas odium parit
Observe this short but certain aphorism, "Forsake all, and thou shalt find all."
Observe thyself as thy greatest enemy would do; so shalt thou be thy greatest friend.
Observation is an old man's memory.
Observation may trip now and then without throwing you, for her gait is a walk; but inference always gallops, and if she stumbles, you are gone.
Observation more than books, experience rather than persons, are the prime educators.
Obstinacy and heat in argument are surest proofs of folly.
Obstinacy is ever most positive when it is most in the wrong.
Obstinacy is the result of the will's forcing
itself into the place of the intellect.
Obstinacy is the strength of the weak.
Obstupui, steteruntque comæ, et vox faucibus hæsit
Obtuseness is sometimes a virtue.
Occasio facit furem
Occasion reins the motions of the stirring
mind.
Occasionem cognosce
Occasions do not make a man frail, but they show what he is.
Occidit miseros crambe repetita magistros
Occupation is the scythe of Time.
Occupet extremum scabies!
Ocean is a mighty harmonist.
Oculi tanquam speculatores altissimum locum obtinent
Oculis magis habenda fides quam auribus
Oculus domini saginat equum
Oderint dum metuant
Oderunt hilarem tristes, tristemque jocosi, /
Sedatum celeres, agilem gnavumque remissi
Oderunt peccare boni virtutis amore
Odi profanum vulgus et arceo
Odi puerulos præcoci ingenio
Odi, vedi, e taci, se vuoi viver in pace
Odia qui nimium timet, regnare nescit
Odimus accipitrem quia semper vivit in armis
Odium theologicum
Odora canum vis
O'ercome thyself, and thou may'st share / With Christ His Father's throne, and wear / The world's imperial wreath.
Of a life of luxury the fruit is luxury.
Of a thoroughly crazy and defective artist we may indeed say he has everything from himself; but of an excellent one, never.
Of all actions of a man's life, his marriage does least concern other people; yet of all actions of our life, 'tis most meddled with by other people.
Of all attainable liberties, be sure first to strive for leave to be useful.
Of all blinds that shut up men's vision the worst is self.
Of all days, the one that is most wasted is that
on which one has not laughed.
Of all earthly music, that which reaches the farthest into heaven is the beating of a loving heart.
Of all evils in story-telling, the humour of telling tales one after another in great numbers is the least supportable.
Of all God's gifts to the sight of man, colour is the holiest, the most divine, the most solemn.
Of all great poems Love is the absolute and the essential foundation.
Of all man's work of art, a cathedral is greatest.
A vast and majestic tree is greater than that.
Of all men, a philosopher should be no swearer; for an oath, which is the end of controversies in law, cannot determine any here, where reason only must induce.
Of all plagues, good Heaven, thy wrath can send, / Save, save, O save me from the candid friend!
Of all pleasures, the fruit of labour is the sweetest.
Of all points of faith the being of a God is encompassed with most difficulty, and yet borne in upon our minds with most power.
Of all rights of man, the right of the ignorant
man to be guided by the wiser, to be gently or forcibly held in the true course by him, is the indisputablest.
Of all studies, study your present condition.
Of all the cants which are canted in this canting world,--though the cant of hypocrites may be the worst,--the cant of criticism is the most tormenting!
Of all the characters of cruelty, I consider that as the most odious which assumes the garb of mercy.
Of all the great masters, there is not one who did not paint his own present world, plainly and truly.
Of all the marvellous works of the Deity, perhaps
there is nothing that angels behold with such supreme astonishment as a proud man.
Of all the passions that possess mankind, / The love of novelty rules most the mind; / In search of this, from realm to realm we roam, / Our fleets come fraught with every folly home.
Of all the possessions of a man, next to the gods, his soul is the mightiest, being the most his own.
Of all the pulpits from which human voice is ever sent forth, there is none from which it reaches so far as from the grave.
Of all the superstitions which infest the brains of weak mortals, the belief in prophecies, presentiments, and dreams, seems to me amongst the most pitiful and pernicious.
Of all the tyrants that the world affords, / Our
own affections are the fiercest lords.
Of all thieves, fools are the worst; they rob you of time and temper.
Of all things, knowledge is esteemed the most precious treasure; because of its incapacity to be stolen, to be given away, or even to be consumed.
Of all those arts in which the wise excel, / Nature's chief masterpiece is writing well.
Of all wild beasts, preserve me from a tyrant; and of all tame, a flatterer.
Of big words and feathers many go to the
pound.
Of error we can talk for ever, but truth demands that we should lay it to heart and apply it.
Of four things every man has more than he knows--of sins, and debts, and years, and foes.
Of God's light I was not utterly bereft, if my as yet sealed eyes, with their unspeakable longing, could nowhere see Him; nevertheless in my heart He was present and His heaven-written law still stood legible and sacred there.
Of great men no one should speak but one who is as great as they, so as to be able to see all round them.
Of great riches there is no real use, except it be in the distribution; the rest is but conceit.
Of hasty counsel take good heed, for very rarely haste is speed.
Of how few lives does not stated duty claim the greater part?
Of illustrious men all the earth is the sepulchre,
and it is not the inscribed column in their own land which is the record of their virtues, but the unwritten memory of them in the hearts and minds of all mankind.
Of its own unity, the soul gives unity to whatso it looks on with love.
Of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.
Of more than earth can earth make none possesst; / And he that least / Regards this restless world, shall in this world find rest.
Of other tyrants short the strife, / But Indolence is king for life: / The despot twists, with soft control, / Eternal fetters round the soul.
Of pleasures, those which occur most rarely
give the greatest delight.
Of real evils the number is great; of possible evils there is no end.
Of the Beautiful we are seldom capable, oftener of the Good; and how highly should we value those who endeavour, with great sacrifices, to forward that good among their fellows!
Of the eyes that men do glare withal, so few can see.
Of the soul, the body form doth take, / For soul is form, and doth the body make.
Of the three requisitions of genius, the first
is soul; the second, soul; and the third, soul.
Of the wealth of the world each has as much as he takes.
Of the Wrong we are always conscious, of the Right never.
Of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes.
Of thy word unspoken thou art master; thy spoken word is master of thee.
Of two evils choose the least.
Of unwise admiration much may be hoped, for much good is really in it; but unwise contempt is itself a negation; nothing comes of it, for it is nothing.
Of what does not concern you say nothing, good or bad.
Of what significance are the things you can forget?
Of wild creatures, a tyrant; and of tame ones, a flatterer.
Off with his head! so much for Buckingham.
Offenders never pardon.
Offerir molto è spezie di negare
Oft have I heard, and now believe it true, / Whom man delights in, God delights in too.
Oft kommt ein nützlich Wort aus schlechtem Munde
Oft leiden kranke Seelen durch selbstgeschaffnen
Wahn
Oft schiessen trifft das Ziel
Oft sogar es ist weise, zu entdecken, / Was nicht verschwiegen bleiben kann
Oft when blind mortals think themselves secure, in height of bliss, they touch the brink of ruin.
Oft zum Dichter macht die Liebe; / Selbst ein Wunder, zeugt sie Wunder
Ofte er Skarlagens Hierte under reven Kaabe
Often a man's own angry pride / Is cap-and-bells for a fool.
Often the cock-loft is empty in those whom Nature hath built many storeys high.
Oftentimes the gods send strong delusions to ensnare too credulous hearts.
Oftentimes, to win us to our harm, / The instruments of darkness tell us truths; / Win us with honest trifles, to betray us / In deepest consequence.
Ofttimes nothing profits more / Than self-esteem,
grounded on just and right.
Ofttimes the pupil goes beyond his master.
Ogni cosa è d'ogni anno
Ogni debole ha sempre il suo tiranno
Ogni medaglio ha il suo riverso
Ogni monte ha la sua valle
Ogni vero non è buono a dire
Ognuno vede quel che tu pari, pochi sentono quel che tu sei
Oh, be he king or peasant, he is happiest / Who in his home finds peace.
Oh, call my brother back to me! / I cannot play alone; / The summer comes with flower and bee,--/ Where is my brother gone?
Oh, Death! the poor man's dearest friend--/
The kindest and the best! / Welcome the hour my aged limbs / Are laid with thee at rest! / The great, the wealthy fear thy blow, / From pomp and pleasure torn! But oh! a bless'd relief to those / That weary-laden mourn!
Oh, for a lodge in some vast wilderness, / Some boundless contiguity of shade, / Where rumour of oppression and deceit, / Of unsuccessful or successful war, / May never reach me more.
Oh, ... for a man with heart, head, hand. / ... Whatever they call him, what care I, / Aristocrat, democrat, autocrat--one / Who can rule and dare not lie!
Oh, how sweet it is to hear our own conviction from another's lips!
Oh, it is excellent / To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous / To use it like a giant.
Oh! Kritisieren, lieber Herr, ist federleicht, / Doch Bessermachen schwierig
Oh, love for ever lost, / And with it faith gone out! what is't remains / But duty, though the path be rough and trod / By bruised and bleeding feet?
Oh, Love, how perfect is thy mystic art, /
Strengthening the weak, and trampling on the strong!
Oh, Love! no habitant of earth thou art--/ An unseen seraph, we believe in thee.
Oh, no! we never mention her; / Her name is never heard; / My lips are now forbid to speak / That once familiar word.
Oh, nostra folle / Mente, ch'ogn aura di fortuna estolle
Oh, that mine adversary had written a book.
Oh, that my lot might lead me in the path of
holy purity of thought and deed, the path which august laws ordain--laws which in the highest heaven had their birth; ... The power of God is mighty in them, and doth not wax old.
Oh, that this too too solid flesh would melt, / Thaw and resolve itself into a dew! / Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd / His canon 'gainst self-slaughter.
Oh! the dulness and the hardness of the heart of man, which contemplates only the present, and does not rather provide for the future.
Oh, the heart is a free and a fetterless thing-- / A wave of the ocean, a bird on the wing.
Oh, there is something in marriage like the veil of the temple of old, / That screened the Holy of Holies with blue and purple and gold; / Something that makes a chamber where none but the one may come, / A sacredness too, and a silence, where joy that is deepest is dumb.
Oh, were I seated high as my ambition, / I'd
place this naked foot on necks of monarchs.
Oh, what a fall was there, my countrymen! / Then I, and you, and all of us fell down, / Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us.
Oh, what damned minutes tells he o'er, / Who dotes, yet doubts; suspects, yet soundly loves.
Oh, what is death but parting breath? / On mony a bloody plain / I've dared his face, and in this place / I scorn him yet again.
Oh, whistle and I'll come to ye, my lad.
Oh, woman, lovely woman! Heaven designed
you / To temper man! We had been brutes without you.
Oh, worse than all! Oh, pang all pangs above, / Is kindness counterfeiting absent love!
Oh, would they stay aback frae courts, / And please themsels wi' country sports, / It wad for every ane be better, / The laird, the tenant, and the cottar.
Ohe! jam satis est
Ohne Begeisterung schlafen die besten Kräfte des Gemüths. Es ist ein Zunder in uns, der Funken will
Ohne die Freiheit, was wärest du, Hellas? /
Ohne dich, Hellas, was wäre die Welt?
Ohne eine Gottheit gibt's für den Menschen weder Zweck, noch Ziel, noch Hoffnung, nur eine zitternde Zukunft, ein ewiges Bangen vor jeder Dunkelheit
Ohne Hast, aber ohne Rast
Ohne Haut
Ohne Mehl und Wasser ist übel backen
Ohne Wahl verteilt die Gaben, / Ohne Billigkeit
das Glück; / Denn Patroklus liegt begraben, / Und Thersites kommt zurück
Ohne Wissen, ohne Sünde
Oil, wine, and friends improve by age.
Old age comes on suddenly, and not gradually, as is thought.
Old age, especially an honoured old age, has so great authority, that it is of more value than all the pleasures of youth.
Old age is a heavy burden.
Old age is a tyrant, who forbids, under pain of death, the pleasures of youth.
Old age is honourable.
Old age is not in itself matter for sorrow. It is matter for thanks if we have left our work done behind us.
Old age is sad
Old age is the repose of life, the rest which precedes
the rest that remains.
Old age is wise for itself, but not wise for the community.
Old age--the words are comparative, not positive.
Old age, though despised, is coveted by all.
Old age was naturally more honoured in times when people could not know much more than they had seen.
Old birds are hard to pluck.
Old birds are not caught with chaff.
Old books, as you well know, are books of the world's youth, and new books are fruits of its age.
Old-fashioned poetry, but choicely good.
Old friends are best.
Old friends burn dim, like lamps in noisome
air; / Love them for what they are; nor love them less; / Because to thee they are not what they were.
Old head and young hand.
Old head upon young shoulders.
Old heads will not suit young shoulders.
Old houses mended / Cost little less than new before they're ended.
Old long-vexed questions, not yet solved in
logical words or parliamentary laws, are fast solving themselves in facts, somewhat unblessed to behold.
Old men are twice children.
Old men lose one of the most precious rights of man, that of being judged by their peers.
Old men should have more care to end life well than to live long.
Old men's lives are lengthened shadows; their evening sun falls coldly on the earth, but the shadows all point to the morning.
Old minds are like old horses; you must exercise
them if you wish to keep them in working order.
Old ovens are soon heated.
Old oxen have stiff horns.
Old shoes are easiest.
Old signs do not deceive.
Old wood to burn, old books to read, old wine
to drink, and old friends to converse with.
Old wounds soon bleed.
Olet lucernam
Oleum adde camino
Oleum et operam perdidi
Olla male fervet
Olim meminisse juvabit
Oliver Cromwell, dead two hundred years ago, does yet speak; nay, perhaps, now first begins to speak.
Omina sunt aliquid
Omne actum ab agentis intentione judicandum
Omne ævum curæ: cunctis sua displicet ætas
Omne animal seipsum diligit
Omne animi vitium tanto conspectius in se / Crimen habet, quanto major qui peccat habetur
Omne capax movet urna nomen
Omne corpus mutabile est; ita efficitur ut
omne corpus mortale sit
Omne epigramma sit instar apis, aculeus illi, / Sint sua mella, sit et corporis exigui
Omne in præcipiti vitium stetit
Omne malum nascens facile opprimitur: inveteratum fit plerumque robustius
Omne nimium vertitur in vitium
Omne scibile
Omne solum forti patria est
Omne tulit punctum qui miscuit utile dulci / Lectorem delectando, pariterque monendo
Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum
Omnem movere lapidem
Omnes amicos habere operosum est; satis est
inimicos non habere
Omnes composui
Omnes eodem cogimur; omnium / Versatur urna serius, ocius, / Sors exitura, et nos in æternum / exsilium impositura cymbæ
Omnes homines, qui de rebus dubiis consultant, ab odio, amicitia, ira, atque misericordia vacuos esse decet
Omnes omnium caritates patria una complectitur
Omnes, quibus res sunt minus secundæ, magis sunt, nescio quomodo / Suspiciosi: ad contumeliam omnia accipiunt magis; / Propter suam impotentiam se credunt negligi
Omnes sapientes decet conferre et fabulari
Omnes una manet nox, / Et calcanda semel via lethi
Omni ætati mors est communis
Omnia bonos viros decent
Omnia conando docilis solertia vincit
Omnia cum amico delibera, sed de te ipso prius
Omnia desuper
Omnia ejusdem farinæ
Omnia fert ætas, animum quoque
Omnia Græce! / Cum sit turpe magis nostris nescire Latine
Omnia inconsulti impetus cœpta, initiis valida, spatio languescunt
Omnia jam fient, fieri quæ posse negabam: / Et nihil est de quo non sit habenda fides
Omnia mala exempla bonis principiis orta sunt
Omnia mea mecum porto
Omnia mutantur, nihil interit
Omnia mutantur, nos et mutamur in illis
Omnia non pariter rerum sunt omnibus apta
Omnia orta occident
Omnia perdidimus, tantummodo vita relicta est
Omnia perversas possunt corrumpere mentes
Omnia præclara rara
Omnia præsumuntur rite et solenniter esse acta
Omnia prius experiri, quam armis, sapientem
decet
Omnia profecto, cum se a cœlestibus rebus referet ad humanas, excelsius magnificentiusque et dicet et sentiet
Omnia quæ nunc vetustissima creduntur, nova fuere ... et quod hodie exemplis tuemur, inter exempla erit
Omnia rerum principia parva sunt
Omnia Romæ / Cum pretio
Omnia serviliter pro dominatione
Omnia subjecisti sub pedibus, oves et boves
Omnia sunt hominum tenui pendentia filo; / Et subito casu, quæ valuere, ruunt
Omnia tuta timens
Omnia venalia Romæ
Omnia vincit amor, nos et cedamus amori
Omnibus bonis expedit rempublicam esse salvam
Omnibus hoc vitium est cantoribus, inter amicos / Ut nunquam inducant animum cantare rogati, / Injussi nunquam desistant
Omnibus hostes / Reddite nos populis, civile avertite bellum
Omnibus in terris, quæ sunt a Gadibus usque / Auroram et Gangem, pauci dignoscere possunt / Vera bona, atque illis multum diversa, remota / Erroris nebula
Omnibus modis, qui pauperes sunt homines,
miseri vivunt; / Præsertim quibus nec quæstus est, nec didicere artem ullam
Omnis ars imitatio est naturæ
Omnis commoditas sua fert incommoda secum
Omnis dolor aut est vehemens, aut levis; si levis, facile fertur, si vehemens, certe brevis futurus est
Omnis enim res / Virtus, fama, decus, divina humanaque pulchris / Divitiis parent; quas qui construxerit, ille / Clarus erit, fortis, justus
Omnis pœna corporalis, quamvis minima, major est omni pœna pecuniaria, quamvis maxima
Omnis stultitia laborat fastidio sui
Omnium consensu capax imperii, nisi imperasset
Omnium horarum homo
Omnium rerum, ex quibus aliquid acquiritur, nihil est agricultura melius, nihil uberius, nihil dulcius, nihil homine libero dignius
Omnium rerum, heus, vicissitudo est
On a beau prêcher à qui n'a cure de bien faire
On a long journey even a straw is heavy.
On a souvent besoin d'un plus petit que soi
On a winged word hath hung the destiny of nations.
On affaiblit toujours tout ce qu'on exagère
On aime bien à deviner les autres, mais l'on
aime pas à être deviné
On aime sans raison, et sans raison l'on hait
On apprend en faillant
On attrape plus de mouches avec du miel qu'avec du vinaigre
On avale à pleine gorgée le mensonge qui nous flatte, et l'on boit goute à goute une vérité qui nous est amère
On commence par être dupe, / On finit par être
fripon
On connaît les amis au besoin
On devient innocent quand on est malheureux
On dit
On dit de gueux qu'ils ne sont jamais dans leur chemins, parce qu'ils n'ont point de demeure fixe. Il en est de même de cause qui disputent, sans avoir des notions déterminées
On dit, est souvent un grand menteur
On dit, et sans horreur je ne puis le redire
On dit que Dieu est toujours pour les gros bataillons
On doit être heureux sans trop penser à l'être
On doit des égards aux vivants; on ne doit aux morts que la vérité
On donne des conseils, mais on ne donne point
la sagesse d'en profiter
On eagles' wings immortal scandals fly, / While virtuous actions are but born to die.
On entre et on crie, / Et voilà la vie! / On crie et on sort, / Et voilà la mort!
On est aisément dupé par ce qu'on aime
On est, quand on le veut, le maître de son sort
On every stage the foes of peace attend /
Hate dogs their flight, and insult mocks their end.
On every thorn delightful wisdom grows; / In every rill a sweet instruction flows.
On fait souvent tort à la vérité par la manière dont on se sert pour la défendre
On fait toujours le loup plus gros qu'il n'est
On gagne peu de choses par habileté
On God and godlike men we build our trust.
On his own saddle one rides safest.
On jette enfin de la terre sur la tête, et en voilà pour jamais
On life's vast ocean diversely we sail, / Reason the card, but passion is the gale.
On Monday morning don't be looking for Saturday night.
On n'a jamais bon marché de mauvaise marchandise
On n'a rien pour rien
On n'aime plus comme on aimait jadis
On n'auroit guère de plaisir, si l'on ne se flattoit point
On n'est jamais si bien servi que par soi-même
On n'est jamais si heureux, ni si malheureux
qu'on se l'imagine
On n'est jamais si riche que quand on déménage
On n'est jamais si ridicule par les qualités que l'on a que par celles que l'on affecte d'avoir
On n'est jamais trahi que par ses siens
On n'est souvent mécontent des autres que parce qu'on l'est de soi-même
On ne considère pas assez les paroles comme
des faits
On ne cherche point à prouver la lumière
On ne doit pas juger du mérite d'un homme par ses grandes qualités, mais par l'usage qu'il en sait faire
On ne donne rien si libéralement que ses conseils
On ne gouverne les hommes que en les servant; la règle est sans exception
On ne jette des pierres qu'à l'arbre chargé de
fruits
On ne loue d'ordinaire que pour être loué
On ne lui fait pas prendre des vessies pour des lanternes
On ne méprise pas tous ceux qui ont des vices, mais on méprise tous ceux qui n'ont aucune vertu
On ne perd les états que par timidité
On ne peut contenter tout le monde et son
père
On ne peut faire qu'en faisant
On ne peut sonner les cloches et aller à la procession
On ne prête qu'aux riches
On ne ramène guère un traître par l'impunité, au lieu que par la punition l'on en rend mille autres sages
On ne réussit dans ce monde qu'à la pointe de
l'épée, et on meurt les armes à la main
On ne sait pour qui on amasse
On ne se blame que pour être loué
On ne sent bien que ses propres maux
On ne trouve jamais l'expression d'un sentiment que l'on n'a pas; l'esprit grimace et le style aussi
On ne va jamais si loin que lorsqu'on ne sait
pas où l'on va
On ne vaut dans ce monde que ce qu'on veut valoir
On ne vit dans la mémoire du monde que par des travaux pour le monde
On pardonne aisément un tort que l'on partage
On parle peu quand la vanité ne fait pas parler
On perd tout le temps qu'on peut mieux employer
On peut attirer les cœurs par les qualités qu'on montre, mais on ne les fixe que par celles qu'on a
On peut dire que son esprit brille aux dépens de sa mémoire
On peut dominer par la force, mais jamais par la seule adresse
On peut être plus fin qu'un autre, mais non
pas plus fin que tous les autres
On peut mépriser le monde, mais on ne peut pas s'en passer
On prend le peuple par les oreilles, comme on fait un pot par les anses
On prend son bien où on le trouve
On prend souvent l'indolence pour la patience
On Reason build Resolve! / That column of
true majesty in man.
On respecte un moulin, on vole une province!
On revient toujours à ses premiers amours
On se heurte toujours où l'on a mal
On se persuade mieux pour l'ordinaire par les raisons qu'on a trouvées soi-même, que par celles qui sont venues dans l'esprit des autres
On some men's bread butter will not stick.
On spécule sur tout, même sur la famine
On termine de longs procès / Par un peu de guerre civile
On the beaten road there is tolerable travelling; but it is sore work, and many have to perish, fashioning a way through the impassable.
On the brink of the waters of life and truth we are miserably dying.
On the day of the resurrection, those who
have indulged in ridicule will be called to the door of Paradise, and have it shut in their faces when they reach it.
On the field of foughten battle still, / Woe knows no limits save the victor's will.
On the neck of the young man sparkles no gem so gracious as enterprise.
On the pinnacle of fortune man does not stand long firm.
On the sea sail, on the land settle.
On the soft bed of luxury most kingdoms have
expired.
On the stage man should stand a step higher than in life.
On this account is the Bible a book of eternally effective power, because, as long as the world lasts, no one will step forward and say: I comprehend it in the whole and understand it in the particular; but we modestly say: In the whole it is venerable, and in the particular practicable
On veut avoir ce qu'on n'a pas, / Et ce qu'on a cesse de de plaire
On voit mourir et renaître les roses; il n'en est pas ainsi de nos beaux jours
On wrong / Swift vengeance waits; and art
subdues the strong.
Once a knave, always a knave.
Once a man and twice a child.
Once for all, beauty remains undemonstrable; it appears to us as in a dream, when we behold the works of the great poets and painters, and, in short, of all feeling artists.
Once is no custom.
Once is no rule.
Once resolved, the trouble is over.
Once sufficiently enforce the eighth commandment, the whole "rights of man" are well cared for; I know no better definition of the rights of man: "Thou shalt not steal; thou shalt not be stolen from." What a society were that! Plato's Republic, More's Utopia mere emblems of it.
Once thoroughly our own, knowledge ceases to give us pleasure.
Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide, / In the strife of truth with falsehood, for the good or evil side.
Once true, still more twice true, in the life of
the spirit is always true.
Ond Gierning har Vidne i Barmen
Ondt bliver aldrig godt för halv værre kommer
One abides not long on the summit of fortune.
One, although not possessed of a mine of gold, may find the offspring of his own nature, that noble ardour, which hath for its object the accomplishment of the whole assemblage of virtues.
One always has time enough if one will apply
it well.
One and God make a majority.
One anecdote is worth a volume of biography.
One barking dog sets all the street a-barking.
One beats the bush, and another catches the bird.
One Bible I know, of whose plenary inspiration
doubt is not so much as possible; nay, with my own eyes I saw the God's hand writing it; whereof all other Bibles are but leaves, say, in picture-writing, to assist the weaker faculty.
One born on the glebe comes by habit to belong to it; the two grow together, and the fairest ties are spun from the union.
One can be very happy without demanding that others should agree with one.
One can bear to be rebuked, but not to be laughed at.
One can live in true freedom, and yet not be unbound.
One can live on little, but not on nothing.
One can never know at the first moment what may, at a future time, separate itself from the rough experience as true substance.
One cannot help doing a good office when it comes in one's way.
One cannot say that the rational is always beautiful; but the beautiful is always rational, or at least ought to be so.
One cannot speak the truth with false words.
One can't shoe a runaway horse.
One chick keeps a hen busy.
One cloud is enough to eclipse all the sun.
One could not commit a greater crime against public interests than to show indulgence to those who violate them.
One could not wish any man to fall into a fault; yet it is often precisely after a fault, or a crime even, that the morality which is in a man first unfolds itself, and what of strength he as a man possesses, now when all else is gone from him.
One could take down a book from a shelf ten times more wise and witty than almost any man's conversation.
One crime is everything; two, nothing.
One crow never pulls out another's eyes.
One crowded hour of glorious life / Is worth an age without a name.
One does not love the heaven's lightning
in the way of care
One dog can drive a flock of sheep.
One doth not know / How much an ill word may empoison liking.
One drop of hatred left in the cup of joy
turns the most blissful draught into poison.
One enemy is too many, and a hundred friends too few.
One enemy may do us more harm than a hundred friends can do us good.
One eye of the master does more than both his hands.
One eye-witness is better than ten hearsays.
One false move may lose the game.
One feels clearly that it is a kindly spirit which actually constitutes the human element in man.
One finds human nature everywhere great and little, beautiful and ugly.... Go on bravely working.
One fire burns out another's burning; / One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish.
One fool makes many.
One futile person, that maketh it his glory to
tell, will do more hurt than many that know it their duty to conceal.
One gets easier accustomed to a silken bed than to a sack of leaves.
One God, one law, one element, / And one far-off divine event, / To which the whole creation moves.
One good deed dying tongueless / Slaughters a thousand, waiting upon that.
One good head is better than a hundred strong hands.
One good mother is worth a hundred schoolmasters.
One good turn deserves another.
One good way I know of to find happiness is not by boring a hole to fit the plug.
One grain fills not a sack, but helps his fellows.
One hair of a woman draws more than a team of horses.
One half of the world knows not how the
other half lives.
One half of the world must sweat and groan that the other half may dream.
One half the world laughs at the other.
One hand full of money is more persuasive than two full of truth.
One hand washes another.
One hard word brings on another.
One head cannot hold all wisdom.
One hour in the execution of justice is worth seventy years of prayer.
One hour's sleep before midnight is worth two after.
One impulse from a vernal wood / May teach you more of man, / Of moral evil and of good, / Than all the sages can.
One is always making good use of one's time
when engaged with a subject that daily forces one to make advances in self-culture.
One is not a whit the happier when he attains what he has wished for.
One is scarcely sensible of fatigue whilst he marches to music.
One jeer seldom goeth forth but it bringeth back its equal.
One keep-clean is better than ten make-cleans.
One learns taciturnity best among those people
who have none, and loquacity among the taciturn.
One lie makes many.
One lie needs seven lies to wait upon it.
One life--a little gleam of time between two eternities.
One link broken, the whole chain is broken.
One loss brings another.
One man is born to money, and another to the purse.
One man makes a chair, and another man sits in it.
One man may lead a horse to the water, but twenty cannot make him drink.
One man may steal a horse more safely than another may look at him over a hedge.
One man receives crucifixion as the reward of
his villainy; another a regal crown.
One man that has a higher wisdom in him is not stronger than ten men, or than ten thousand, but than all men that have it not.
One man's eyes are spectacles to another to read his heart with.
One man's justice is another man's injustice; one man's beauty, another's ugliness; one man's wisdom, another's folly; as one beholds the same objects from a higher point.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
One man's opinion is no man's opinion.
One may forsake a person to save a family; one may desert a whole family for the sake of a village; and sacrifice a village for the safety of the community; but for one's self one may abandon the whole world.
One may give him a hundred instances from Holy Writ that he should not dispute; still, it is the character of a fool to make a disturbance without a cause.
One may make the house a palace of sham, or he can make it a home--a refuge.
One may often find as much thought on the reverse of a medal as in a canto of Spenser.
One may see that with half an eye.
One may smile, and smile, and be a villain.
One may summon his philosophy when he is beaten in battle, not till then.
One misfortune is the vigil of another.
One monster there is in this world: the idle man.
One mother is more venerable than a thousand fathers.
One murder made a villain; / Millions, a hero.
One must be careful in announcing great happiness.
One must be somebody in order to have an enemy. One must be a force before he can be resisted by another force.
One must be something in order to do something.
One must believe in simplicity, in what is simple, in what is originally productive, if one wants to go the right way. This, however, is not granted to every one; we are born in an artificial state, and it is far easier to make it more artificial still than to return to what is simple.
One must have lived greatly whose record
would bear the full light of day from its beginning to its close.
One must not look a gift horse in the mouth.
One must not swerve in one's self, not even a hair's breadth from the highest maxims of art and life; but in empiricism, in the movement of the day, I would rather allow what is mediocre to pass than mistake the good, or even find fault with it.
One must take a pleasure in the shell till one has the happiness to arrive at the kernel.
One must weigh men by avoirdupois weight, and not by the jeweller's scales.
One need only take a thing properly in hand
for it to be done.
One need only utter something that flatters indolence and conceit to be sure of plenty of adherents among commonplace people.
One never goes farther than when he does not know whither he is going.
One never needs his wit so much as when he argues with a fool.
One of the best rules in conversation is, never say a thing which any of the company can reasonably wish we had left unsaid.
One of the chief misfortunes of honest people
is that they are cowardly.
One of the most fatal sources of the prevailing misery and crime lies in the generally accepted quiet assumption that because things have long been wrong, it is impossible they should ever be right.
One of the most singular gifts, or, if abused, most singular weaknesses, of the human mind, is its power of persuading itself to see whatever it chooses; a great gift if directed to the discernment of the things needful and pertinent to its own work and being; a great weakness if directed to the discovery of things profitless or discouraging.
One of the noblest qualities in our nature is that we are able so easily to dispense with greater perfection.
One of the old man's miseries is that he cannot easily find a companion able to partake with him of the past.
One of the sublimest things in the world is
plain truth.
One of the worst diseases to which the human creature is liable is its disease of thinking. If it would only just look at a thing instead of thinking what it must be like, or do a thing instead of thinking it cannot be done, we should all get on far better.
One of these days is none of these days.
One on God's side is a majority.
One ought not to praise a great man unless he is as great as he.
One pair of heels is often worth two pair of
hands.
One pirate gets nothing of another but his cask.
One ploughs, another sows; / Who will reap, no one knows.
One power rules another, but no power can cultivate another; in each endowment, and not elsewhere, lies the force that must complete it.
One precedent creates another. They soon accumulate and constitute law. What yesterday was fact to-day is doctrine. Examples are supposed to justify the most dangerous measures; and where they do not suit exactly, the defect is supplied by analogy.
One rarely sees how deeply one is in debt till
one comes to settle one's accounts.
One really gains nothing from such interests
One religion after another fades away; but the religious sense, which created them all, can never become dead to humanity.
One says more, and with more heart, in an hour than is written in years.
One science only can one genius fit, / So vast is art, so narrow human wit.
One scream of fear from a mother may resound
through the whole life of her daughter.
One sheep follows another.
One should abandon that country wherein there is neither respect, nor employment, nor connections, nor the advancement of science.
One should never ask anybody if one means to write anything.
One should never risk a joke, even of the mildest and most unexceptionable character, except among people of culture and wit.
One should never think of death. One should think of life: that is real piety.
One should not lift the rod against our enemies upon the private information of another.
One should not neglect from time to time to renew friendly relations by personal intercourse.
One shriek of hate would jar all the hymns of heaven: / True Devils with no ear, they howl in tune / With nothing but the Devil!
One sickly sheep infects the flock.
One sin opens the door to another.
One single moment is decisive both of man's life and his whole future. However he may reflect, each resolution he forms is but the work of a moment; the prudent alone seize the right one.
One sinner destroyeth much good.
One solitary philosopher may be great, virtuous, and happy in the depth of poverty, but not a whole people.
One soul may have a decided influence upon
another merely by means of its silent presence.
One soweth and another reapeth.
One step above the sublime makes the ridiculous, and one step above the ridiculous makes the sublime again.
One stumble is enough to deface the character of an honourable life.
One sun by day, by night ten thousand shine.
One swallow does not make a summer.
One sword keeps another in the scabbard.
One "Take this" is better than two "I will give you."
"One thing above all others," says Goethe, "I have never thought about thinking." What a thrift of thinking faculty there; thrift almost of itself equal to a fortune in these days.
One thing at a time, all things in succession. That which grows fast withers as rapidly; that which grows slowly endures.
One thing is needful.
One thing there is which no child brings into the world with him; and yet it is on this one thing that all depends for making man in every point a man;--and that is Reverence
One thorn of experience is worth a whole wilderness of warning.
One thought includes all thought, in the sense that a grain of sand includes the universe.
One tires of a page of which every sentence sparkles with points, of a sentimentalist who is always pumping the tears from his eyes or your own.
One to another cannot be a perfect physician.
One to-day is worth two to-morrows.
One tongue is sufficient for a woman.
One touch of Nature makes the whole world kin.
One 'ud think, an' hear some folk talk, as the men war cute enough to count the corns in a bag o' wheat wi' only smelling at it.
One who, either in conversation or in letters,
affects to shine and to sparkle always, will not please long.
One who has nothing to admire, nothing to love, except his own poor self, may be reckoned a completed character; (but) he is in the minimum state of moral perfection--no more can be made of him.
One who is master of ever so little art may be able, on a great occasion, to root up trees with as much ease as the current of a river the reeds and grass.
One who is out of his own country is defeated by a very trifling enemy.
One woe doth tread upon another's heel, / So fast they follow.
One word with two meanings is the traitor's
shield and shaft.
One wrong step may give you a great fall.
One's morning indolence is soon gone when one has once persuaded one's self to put a foot out of bed.
One's piety is best displayed in his pursuits.
One's too few, three's too many.
Oneness and otherness. It is impossible to
speak or think without embracing both.
Only a Christ could have conceived a Christ.
Only a great pride, that is, a great and reverential repose in one's own being, renders possible a noble humility.
Only a sweet and virtuous soul, / Like seasoned timber, never gives: / But when the whole world turns to coal, / Then chiefly lives.
Only action gives life strength; only moderation gives it a charm.
Only an artist can interpret the meaning of
life.
Only an inventor knows how to borrow, and every man is, or should be, an inventor.
Only by joy and sorrow does a man know anything about himself and his destiny, learn what he ought to seek and what to shun.
Only by pride cometh contention; but with the well-advised is wisdom.
Only great men have any business with great defects.
Only great souls know the grandeur there is
in charity.
Only he can be trusted with gifts who can present a face of bronze to expectations.
Only he deserves freedom who has day by day to fight for it.
Only he helps who unites with many at the proper hour; a single individual helps not.
Only I discern / Infinite passion, and the pain / Of finite hearts that yearn.
Only in complicated critical cases do men find
out what is within them.
Only in looking heavenward, take it in what sense you may, not in looking earthward, does what we call union, mutual love, society, begin to be possible.
Only in the world I fill up a place, which may be better supplied when I have made it empty.
Only learn to catch happiness, for happiness is ever by you.
Only lofty character is worth describing at all.
Only people who possess firmness can possess
true gentleness.
Only regard for law can give us freedom.
Only so far as a man is happily married to himself is he fit for married life and family life generally.
Only such persons interest us, Spartans, Romans, Saracens, English, Americans, who have stood in the jaws of need, and have by their own wit and might extricated themselves, and made man victorious.
Only suffering draws / The inner heart of song, and can elicit / The perfumes of the soul.
Only that good profits which we can taste with
all doors open, and which serves all men.
Only that is poetry which purifies and mans me.
Only the actions of the just / Smell sweet and blossom in the dust.
Only the idle among the poor revolt against their state; the brave workers die passively, and give no sign.
Only the man of worth can recognise worth in men.
Only the person should give advice in a
matter where he himself will co-operate.
Only the word of God and the heart of man can govern.
Only they who have hope live.
Only those books come down which deserve to last.
Only those live who do good.
Only those who love with the heart can animate
the love of others.
Only to the apt, the pure, and the true does Nature resign herself and reveal her secrets.
Only truth can be polished.
Only what of the past was true will come back to us; that is the one asbestos that survives all fire.
Only when man weeps he should be alone, not because tears are weak, but they should be secret.
Onus probandi
Onus segni impone asello
Open not your door when the devil knocks.
Open rebuke is better than secret love.
Opera illius mea sunt
Operæ pretium est
Opere in longo fas est obrepere somnum
Operosa parvus carmina fingo
Operose nihil agunt
Opes regum, corda subditorum
Opiferque per orbem dicor
Opinion is a medium between knowledge and ignorance.
Opinion is, as it were, the queen of the world, but force is its tyrant.
Opinion is the main thing which does good or harm in the world. It is our false opinions that ruin us.
Opinion is the mistress of fools.
Opinion rules the world.
Opinions concerning acts are not history; acts themselves alone are history.
Opinions, like showers, are generated in high places, but they invariably descend into lower ones.
Opinionum enim commenta delet dies, naturæ judicia confirmat
Opportunities, like eggs, come one at a time.
Opportunities neglected are irrecoverable.
Opportunity has hair in front, but is bald behind; if you meet her, seize her by the forelock, for Jove himself cannot catch her again if once let slip.
Opportunity is more powerful even than conquerors and prophets.
Opportunity makes desire.
Opportunity makes us known to others, but
more to ourselves.
Oppose not rage while rage is in its force, but give it way awhile and let it waste.
Opposition always enflames the enthusiast, never converts him.
Oppress'd with grief, oppress'd with care, / A burden more than I can bear, / I sit me down and sigh; / O Life, thou art a galling load, / Along a rough and weary road, / To wretches such as I.
Oppression is more easily borne than insult.
Opprobrium medicorum
Optat ephippia bos piger; optat arare caballus
Optics sharp it needs, I ween, / To see what is not to be seen.
Optima quæque dies miseris mortalibus ævi / Prima fugit; subeunt morbi tristisque senectus, / Et labor; et duræ rapit inclementia mortis
Optimi consiliarii mortui
Optimum obsonium labor
Opum furiata cupido
Ora et labora
Oracles speak.
Oral delivery aims at persuasion, at making
the listener believe he is convinced. Few persons are capable of being convinced; the majority allow themselves to be persuaded.
Orando laborando
Orandum est ut sit mens sana in corpore sano
Orate pro anima
Orationis summa virtus est perspicuitas
Orator improbus leges subvertit
Oratory is a warrior's eye flashing from under a philosopher's brow.
Oratory, like a drama, abhors lengthiness; like the drama, it must be kept doing.
Order all thy actions, so as readily and meekly to comply with the commands of thy superiors, the desires of thy equals, the requests of thy inferiors; so to do for all what thou lawfully mayest.
Order and quiet are good things when they can be had without the sacrifice of things that are better.
Order is a great man's need, and his true well-being.
Order is heaven's first law.
Order is power.
Order is the sanity of the mind, the health of the body, the peace of the city, the security of the state. As the beams to a house, as the bones to the microcosm of man, so is order to all things.
Order is truth, each thing standing on the basis that belongs to it.
Order, thou eye of action.
Ordinary people think merely of spending time; a man with any brains, of using it.
Ore e sempre
Ore tenus
Organic laws can only be serviceable to, and, in general, will only be written by, a public of honourable citizens, loyal to their state and faithful to each other.
Originality is a thing we constantly clamour for and constantly quarrel with, as if any, observes Jean Paul, but our own could be expected to content us.
Originality is simply a fresh pair of eyes.
Originality is the one thing which unoriginal minds cannot feel the use of.
Originality provokes originality.
Ornament is but the guilèd shore / To a most
dangerous sea; the beauteous scarf / Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word, / The seeming truth which cunning times put on / To entrap the wisest.
Ornaments were invented by modesty.
Oro è che oro vale
Orthodoxy is my doxy; heterodoxy another man's doxy.
Orthodoxy is the Bourbon of the world of thought; it learns not, neither can it forget.
Os, orare, vale, communio, mensa negatur
Ostentation is the signal flag of hypocrisy.
Otez un vilain du gibet, il vous y mettra
Othello's occupation's gone!
Other exercises develop single powers and muscles, but dancing, like a corporeal poesy, embellishes, exercises, and equalises all the muscles at once.
Other heights in other lives, God willing.
Other men are lenses through which we read our own minds.
Other men laboured, and ye are entered into their labours.
Others apart sat on a hill retired, / In thoughts more elevate, and reason'd high / Of Providence, fore-knowledge, will, and fate, / Fix'd fate, free-will, fore-knowledge absolute; / And found no end, in wand'ring mazes lost.
Others, more aspiring than achieving, / Achieve all in suggestion, ... / More helpful by their infinite reaching forth / Than all completed thinking.
Otia si tollas, periere Cupidinis arcus
Otiosis nullus adsistit Deus
Otium cum dignitate
Otium sine literis mors est, et hominis vivi sepultura
Où peut-on être mieux qu'au sein de sa famille?
Où sont les neiges d'antan?
Oublier d'éclairer sa lanterne
Oublier ne puis
Oui et Non sont bien courts à dire, mais avant que de les dire, il y faut penser long-temps
Our acts our angels are, or good or ill, / Our
fatal shadows that walk by us still.
Our admiration of the antique is not admiration of the old, but of the natural.
Our affections are but tents of a night.
Our affections, as well as our bodies, are in perpetual flux.
Our age is really up to nothing better than sweeping out the gutters--a scavenger age. Might it but do that well! It is the indispensable beginning of all.
Our age knows nothing but reactions, and
leaps from one extreme to another.
Our ambiguous dissipating education awakens wishes when it should be animating tendencies; instead of forwarding our real capacities, it turns our efforts towards objects which are frequently discordant with the mind that aims at them.
Our ancestors are very good kind o' folks; but they are the last people I should choose to have a visiting acquaintance with.
Our attachment to every object around us increases, in general, from the length of our acquaintance with it.
Our best history is still poetry.
Our best resolutions are frail when opposed
to our predominant inclinations.
Our best thoughts come from others.
Our better mind / Is as a Sunday's garment, then put on / When we have nought to do; but at our work / We wear a worse for thrift.
Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting.
Our books are false by being fragmentary; the sentences are "bon mots," and not parts of natural discourse; childish expressions of surprise or pleasure in nature--or worse.
Our bounty, like a drop of water, disappears
when diffused too widely.
Our brains are seventy-year clocks. The angel of life winds them up once for all, then closes the case, and gives the key into the hands of the angel of the resurrection.
Our charity indeed should be universal, and extend to all mankind; but it is by no means convenient that our friendships and familiarities should do so too.
Our chief comforts often produce our greatest anxieties, and an increase of our possessions is but an inlet to new disquietudes.
Our chief experiences have been casual.
Our chief want in life is somebody who shall
make us do what we can.
Our clock strikes when there is a change from hour to hour; but no hammer in the Horologe of Time peals through the universe when there is a change from era to era.
Our compell'd sins / Stand more for number than accompt.
Our complaint is the largest tribute heaven receives, and the sincerest part of our devotion.
Our content / Is our best having.
Our corn's to reap, for yet our tilth's to sow.
Our country is wherever we are well off.
Our dead are never dead to us until we have forgotten them.
Our decrees / Dead to infliction, to themselves are dead; / And liberty plucks justice by the nose, / The baby beats the nurse, and quite athwart / Goes all decorum.
Our deeds are fetters that we forge ourselves.
Our deeds are like children born to us; they
live and act apart from our own will. Children may be strangled, but deeds never.
Our deeds determine us as much as we determine our deeds.
Our delight in reason degenerates into idolatry of the herald.
Our dissatisfaction with any other solution is the blazing evidence of immortality.
Our domestic service is usually a foolish fracas of unreasonable demand on the one side and striking on the other.
Our doubts are traitors, / And make us lose the
good we oft might win / By fearing to attempt.
Our dreams drench us in sense, and sense steeps us again in dreams.
Our echoes roll from soul to soul, / And grow for ever and for ever.
Our energies are actually cramped by over-anxiety for success, and by straining our mental faculties beyond due bounds.
Our esteem of great powers, or amiable qualities newly discovered, may embroider a day or a week, but a friendship of twenty years is interwoven with the texture of life.
Our expense is almost all for conformity.
Our experiences of life sway and bow us either with joy or sorrow. They plant everything about us with heart-seeds. Thus a house becomes sacred. Every room has a thousand memories.
Our eyes see all around in gloom or glow--/ Hues of their own, fresh borrowed from the heart.
Our fear commonly meets us at the door by which we think to run from it.
Our feelings are always purest and most glowing in the hour of meeting and of farewell; like the glaciers, which are transparent and rosy-hued only at sunrise and sunset.
Our first ideas of life are generally taken from fiction rather than fact.
Our flatterers are our worst enemies.
Our friends see not our faults, or conceal them, or soften them.
Our God is a household God, as well as a
heavenly one. He has an altar in every man's dwelling; let men look to it when they rend it lightly, and pour out its ashes.
Our grand business is not to see what lies dimly at a distance, but to do what lies clearly at hand.
Our greatest, being also by nature our quietest, are perhaps those that remain unknown.
Our greatest glory consists not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.
Our greatest misfortunes come to us from ourselves.
Our hand we open of our own free will, and the
good flies which we can never recall.
Our hap is lost, our hope but sad despair.
Our happiness in this world depends on the affections we are able to inspire.
Our happiness should not be laid on a too broad foundation.
Our hearts, frequently warmed by the contact of those whom we wish to resemble, will undoubtedly catch something of their way of thinking; and we shall receive in our own bosoms some radiation at least of their fire and splendour.
Our heavenward progress is something like
that of the Jerusalem pilgrims of old, who for three steps forward took one backward.
Our high respect for a well-read man is praise enough of literature.
Our hoard is little, but our hearts are great.
Our hopes are but our memories reversed.
Our human laws are but the copies, more or less imperfect, of the eternal laws so far as we can read them.
Our humanity were a poor thing but for the
divinity that stirs within us.
Our ideals are our better selves.
Our ideas, like pictures, are made out of lights and shadows.
Our life contains a thousand springs, / And dies if one be gone; / Strange that a harp of thousand strings / Should keep in tune so long.
Our life is compassed round with necessity; yet is the meaning of life itself no other than freedom, than voluntary force.
Our life is no dream, but it may and will perhaps
become one.
Our life is not a mutual helpfulness; but rather, cloaked under due laws of war, named "fair competition," and so forth, it is a mutual hostility.
Our life might be much easier and simpler than we make it.
Our life should feed the springs of fame / With a perennial wave, / As ocean feeds the bubbling founts / Which find in it their grave.
Our Lord God commonly gives riches to foolish people, to whom He gives nothing else.
Our Lord has written the promise of the resurrection,
not in books alone, but in every leaf in spring-time.
Our love is inwrought in our enthusiasm, as electricity is inwrought in the air, exalting its power by a subtle presence.
Our love of truth is evinced by our ability to discover and appropriate what is good wherever we come upon it.
Our memories are independent of our wills.
Our minds cannot be empty; and evil will break in upon them if they are not pre-occupied by good.
Our minds should be habituated to the contemplation
of excellence.
Our moral impressions invariably prove strongest in those moments when we are most driven back upon ourselves.
Our most exalted feelings are not meant to be the common food of daily life. Contentment is more satisfying than exhilaration; and contentment means simply the sum of small and quiet pleasures.
Our narrow ken / Reaches too far, when all that we behold / Is but the havoc of wide-wasting Time, / Or what he soon shall spoil.
Our nature is inseparable from desires, and the very word "desire" (the craving for something not possessed) implies that our present felicity is not complete.
Our natures are like oil; compound us with
anything, yet still we strive to swim upon the top.
Our notion of the perfect society embraces the family as its centre and ornament. Nor is there a paradise planted till the children appear in the foreground to animate and complete the picture.
Our own heart, and not other men's opinions, forms our true honour.
Our passions and principles are steady in frenzy; but begin to shift and waver, as we return to reason.
Our passions are like convulsion fits, which, though they make us stronger for the time, leave us weaker ever after.
Our passions are true phœnixes; when the
old one is burnt out, the new one rises straightway from its ashes.
Our path of glory / By many a cloud is darken'd and unblest.
Our patience will achieve more than our force.
Our peasant
us, "a soul like an Æolian harp, in whose strings the vulgar wind, as it passed through them, changed itself into articulate melody."
Our pleasures are short, and can only charm at intervals; love is a method of protracting our greatest pleasure.
Our pleasures travel by express; our pains by parliamentary.
Our poetry of the eighteenth century was prose; our prose of the seventeenth, poetry.
Our poets are men of talents who sing, and not the children of music.
Our present time is indeed a criticising and a critical time, hovering between the wish and the inability to believe.
Our purity of taste is best tested by its universality,
for if we can only admire this thing or that, we may be sure that our cause for liking is of a finite and false nature.
Our purses shall be proud, our garments poor.
Our ravings and complaints are but like arrows shot up into the air at no mark, and so to no purpose, but only to fall back upon our own heads and destroy ourselves.
Our relation to things outside of ourselves forms, and at the same time robs us of, our existence, and yet we have to do our best to adapt ourselves to circumstances; for to isolate one's self is also not advisable.
Our relations are far too artificial and complicated, our nutriment and mode of life are without their proper nature, and our social intercourse is without proper love and goodwill. Every one is polished and courteous, but no one has the courage to be hearty and true.
Our relations are ours by lot, our friends by
election.
Our religion assumes the negative form of rejection. Out of love of the true, we repudiate the false; and the religion is an abolishing criticism.
Our religion is meant to root out our vices, but it covers, nourishes, and excites them.
Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie, / Which we ascribe to heaven.
Our sacrifices are rarely of an active kind; we, as it were, abandon what we give away. It is not from resolution, but despair, that we renounce our property.
Our self-made men are the glory of our institutions.
Our senses will not admit of anything extreme: too much noise confuses us, too much light dazzles us.
Our social forms are very far from truth and equity.
Our sorrows are like thunder-clouds, which seem black in the distance, but grow lighter as they approach.
Our souls much farther than our eyes can see.
Our souls must become expanded by the contemplation
of Nature's grandeur before we can fully comprehend the greatness of man.
Our spiritual maladies are but of opinion; we are but fettered by chains of our own forging, and which ourselves also can rend asunder.
Our spontaneous action is always the best.
Our stomach for good fortune is bottomless, but the entrance to it is narrow.
Our strength lies in our weakness
Our temperaments differ in capacity of heat,
or we boil at different degrees.
Our thinking is a pious reception.
Our thoughts are often worse than we are, just as they are often better.
Our thoughts take wildest flight / Even at the moment when they should array themselves in pensive order.
Our time is fixed, and all our days are numbered; / How long, how short, we know not: this we know, / Duty requires we calmly wait the summons, / Nor dare to stir till Heaven shall give permission.
Our torment is unbelief, the uncertainty as to
what we ought to do, the distrust of the value of what we do, and the distrust that the necessity which we all at last believe in is fair and beneficial.
Our valours are our best gods.
Our vanity is the constant enemy of our dignity.
Our very hopes belied our fears, / Our fears our hopes belied; / We thought her dying when she slept, / And sleeping when she died.
Our virtues are dearer to us the more we have had to suffer for them. It is the same with our children. All profound affection admits a sacrifice.
Our virtues depend on our failings as their
root, and the latter send forth as strong and manifold branches underground as the former do in the open light.
Our / Virtues lie in the interpretation of the time.
Our virtues would be proud if our faults whipped them not; and our crimes would despair if they were not cherished by our virtues.
Our whole existence is passed into words, and words, by means of tongue and ears, pass so easily into the soul.
Our whole life is but a chamber which we are frescoing with colours, that do not appear while being laid on wet, but which will shine forth afterwards when finished and dry.
Our whole terrestrial being is based on Time
and built of Time; it is wholly a movement, a Time-impulse; Time is the author of it, the material of it.
Our wills and fates do so contrary run, / That our devices still are overthrown; / Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
Our work must be done honourably and thoroughly, because we are now men; whether we ever expect to be angels, or ever were slugs, being practically no matter. We are now human creatures, and must, at our peril, do human, that is to say, affectionate, honest, and earnest work.
Our works are presentiments of our capabilities.
Our works decay and disappear, / God's frailest works abide, and look / Down on the ruins we toil to rear.
Our worst misfortunes never happen, and most miseries lie in anticipation.
Our yesterday's to-morrow now is gone, / And still a new to-morrow does come on. / We by to-morrow draw out all our store, / Till the exhausted well can yield no more.
Our young men are terribly alike.
Ourselves are easily provided for; it is nothing but the circumstantials of human life that cost so much.
Out at sea, the universe has dwindled to a
little circle of crumpled water, that journeys with you day after day, and to which you seem bound by some enchantment.
Out of debt, out of danger.
Out of difficulties grow miracles.
Out of Evil comes Good; and no Good that is possible but shall one day be real.
Out of my stony griefs / Bethel I'll raise.
Out of Plato come all things that are still
written and debated about among men of thought.
Out of sight out of mind.
Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.
Out of the eater cometh forth meat; out of the strong cometh forth sweetness.
Out of the frying-pan into the fire.
Out of the suffering comes the serious mind;
out of the salvation, the grateful heart; out of endurance, fortitude; out of deliverance, faith.
Out of this nettle danger we pluck this flower safety.
Out upon the tempest of anger, the acrimonious gall of fretful impatience, the sullen frost of lowring resentment, or the corroding poison of withered envy! They eat up the immortal part of a man!... like traitor Iscariot, betray their lord and master.
Outward judgment often fails, inward justice never.
Outward religion originates by society; society
becomes possible by religion.
Ouvrage de longue haleine
Over the events of life we may have a control, but none whatever over the law of its progress.
Over the Time thou hast no power; solely over one man therein hast thou a quite absolute, uncontrollable power; him redeem, him make honest.
Over there it will not be otherwise than it is here.
Overcome evil with good.
Overdone is worse than underdone.
Ovid finely compares a man of broken fortune to a falling column; the lower it sinks, the greater weight it is obliged to sustain.
Owe no man anything, but to love one another; for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law.
Oysters are not good in a month that hath not an R in it.
Pabulum Acherontis
Pace tanti viri
Pacem hominibus habe, bellum cum vitiis
Pacta conventa
Pacte de famille
Pactum non pactum est; non pactum pactum
est; quod vobis lubet
Paga lo que debes, sabrás lo que tienes
"Pagan self-assertion" is one of the elements of human worth as well as "Christian self-denial."
Pain has its own noble joy, when it kindles a strong consciousness of life, before stagnant and torpid.
Pain is less subject than pleasure to capricious expression.
Pain is so uneasy a sentiment that very little
of it is enough to corrupt every enjoyment.
Pain is the deepest thing we have in our nature, and union through pain has always seemed more real and holy than any other.
Pain is the positive element in life, and pleasure its negation.
Pain past is pleasure.
Pain pays the income of each precious thing.
Painful for man is rebellious independence
when it has become inevitable; only in loving companionship with his fellows does he feel safe; only in reverently bowing down before the Higher does he feel himself exalted.
Pains of love be sweeter far / Than all other pleasures are.
Paint costs nothing.
"Paint me as I am."
Painters draw their nymphs in thin and airy habits, but the weight of gold and of embroideries is reserved for queens and goddesses.
Painting does not proceed so much by intelligence
as by sight and feeling and invention.
Painting is silent poetry, and poetry speaking painting.
Painting is the intermediate between a thought and a thing.
Palabra de boca, piedra de honda
Palabra y piedra suelta no tiene vuelta
Palam mutire plebeio piaculum est
Palinodiam canere
Pallida mors æquo pulsat pede pauperum tabernas, / Regumque turres
Palma non sine pulvere
Palma virtuti
Palmam qui meruit ferat
Panem et circenses
Paper and leather and ink, / All are but trash / If I find not the thought / Which the writer can think.
Par bene comparatum
Par droit de conquète et par droit de naissance
Par excellence
Par l'écoulement du temps
Par le droit du plus fort
Par les mêmes voies on ne va pas toujours aux
mêmes fins
Par ma foi! l'âge ne sert de guère / Quand on n'a pas cela
Par manière d'acquit
Par negotiis, neque supra
Par nobile fratrum
Par pari referto
Par signe de mépris
Par ternis suppar
Par trop débattre la vérité se perd
Par un prompt désespoir souvent on se marie, / Qu'on s'en repent après tout le temps de sa vie
Paradise is always where love dwells.
Paradise is for those who control their anger.
Paradise is under the shadow of our swords.
Parasiticam cœnam quærit
Parce, puer, stimulis et fortius utere loris
Parcere personis, dicere de vitiis
Parcere subjectis et debellare superbos
Parcite paucorum diffundere crimen in omnes
Parcus Deorum cultor, et infrequens, / Insanientis dum sapientiæ / Consultus erro; nunc retrorsum / Vela dare, atque iterare cursus / Cogor relictos
Pardon is the choicest flower of victory.
Parents are commonly more careful to bestow
wit on their children than virtue, the art of speaking well than of doing well; but their manners ought to be the great concern.
Parents' blessings can neither be drowned in water nor consumed in fire.
Parents we can have but once; and he promises himself too much who enters life with the expectation of finding many friends.
Pares cum paribus ut est in veteri proverbio facillime congregantur
Parfois, élus maudits de la fureur suprême, / ... Ces envoyés du ciel sont apparus au monde / Comme s'ils venaient de l'enfer
Pari passu
Pari ratione
Paritur pax bello
Parlez du loup et vous en verrez la queue
Parlez peu et bien, si vous voulez qu'on vous regarde comme un homme de mérite
Parliamentary government is government by
speaking.
Pars beneficii est quod petitur si belle neges
Pars beneficii est quod petitur si cito neges
Pars hominum vitiis gaudet constanter, et urget / Propositum: pars multa natat, modo recta capessens, / Interdum pravis obnoxia
Pars minima est ipsa puella sui
Pars minima sui
Pars sanitatis velle sanari fuit
Parsimonia est magnum vectigal
Parsimony is enough to make the master of the golden mines as poor as he that has nothing; for a man may be brought to a morsel of bread by parsimony as well as profusion.
Parta tueri
Partage de Montgomerie: tout d'un côté, rien de l'autre
Parthis mendacior
Partial culture runs to the ornate; extreme culture to simplicity.
Particeps criminis
Parties do not consider; they only feel.
Parting day / Dies like a dolphin, whom each pang imbues / With a new colour as it gasps away, / The last still loveliest, till--'tis gone, and all is gray.
Parting is worse than death; it is death of love.
Parting with a delusion makes one wiser than falling in with a truth.
Parturiunt montes, nascetur ridiculus mus
Party honesty is party expediency.
Party is the madness of many for the gain of the few.
Party standards are shadows in which patriotism is buried.
Parva leves capiunt animos
Parva sunt hæc; sed parva ista non contemnendo majores nostri maximam hanc rem fecerunt
Parvis componere magna
Parvula (nam exemplo est) magni formica laboris / Ore trahit quodcunque potest atque addit acervo, / Quem struit, haud ignara ac non incauta futuri
Parvula scintilla sæpe magnum suscitavit incendium
Parvum non parvæ amicitiæ pignus
Parvum parva decent
Pas à pas on va bien loin
Pas un pouce de notre territoire, ni une pierre de nos forteresses!
Pascitur in vivis livor, post fata quiescit; / Tunc suus, ex merito, quemque tuetur honos
Pass no rash censure upon other people's words or actions.
Passato il pericolo gabbato il santo
Passe avant
Passe par tout
Passez-moi la rhubarbe et je vous passerai le séné
Passion depraves, but also ennobles.
Passion drives the man, passions the woman;
him a stream, her the winds.
Passion is the drunkenness of the mind.
Passion is universal humanity. Without it religion, history, romance, art, would be useless.
Passion looks not beyond the moment of its existence.
Passion makes the best observations and the sorriest conclusions.
Passion makes the will lord of the reason.
Passion often makes a fool of the most ingenious man, and often makes the greatest blockhead ingenious.
Passion, though a bad regulator, is a powerful spring.
Passionate people are like men who stand upon their heads; they see all things in the wrong way.
Passions are likened best to floods and streams; / The shallow murmur, but the deep are dumb.
Passions are the gales of life.
Passions are the vices or virtues in their highest powers.
Passions existed before principles; they came into the world with us.
Passions may not unfitly be termed the mob of the man, that commits a riot upon his reason.
Passions spin the plot; we are betrayed by what is false within.
Past and to come seem best, things present
worst.
Pastime, like wine, is poison in the morning.
Patch and long sit, / Build and soon flit.
Patch grief with proverbs.
Pater familias
Pater noster
Pater patriæ
Patience and perseverance overcome the greatest difficulties.
Patience, and shuffle the cards.
Patience et longueur de temps / Font plus
que force ni que rage
Patience had no sooner placed herself by the mount of sorrows, but the whole heap sunk to such a degree, that it did not appear a third part so big as it was before.
Patience is a necessary ingredient of genius.
Patience is a plaister for all sores.
Patience is a remedy for every sorrow.
Patience is a stout horse, but it will tire at the last.
Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet.
Patience is even more rarely manifested in the intellect than in the temper.
Patience is genius.
Patience is good for poltroons.
Patience is sister to meekness, and humility is its mother.
Patience is the art of hoping.
Patience is the ballast of the soul, that will keep it from rolling and tumbling in the greatest storms.
Patience is the key of content.
Patience is the key of Paradise.
Patience is the support of weakness; impatience, the ruin of strength.
Patience, money, and time bring all things to pass.
Patience of obscurity is a duty which we owe not more to our happiness than to the quiet of the world at large.
Patience passe science
Patience, unmoved, no marvel though she
pause; / They can be meek that have no other cause.
Patience wears out stones.
Patience, when it is a divine thing, is active, not passive.
Patience wi' poverty is a man's best remedy.
Patient waiters are no losers.
Patientia læsa fit furor
Patientia vinces
Patiently add farthing to farthing.
Patitur qui vincit
Patria cara, carior libertas
Patria quis exul / Se quoque fugit?
Patriæ fumus igne alieno luculentior
Patriæ infelici fidelis
Patriæ pietatis imago
Patriæ solum omnibus carum est
Patriotism depends as much on mutual suffering
as on mutual success.
Patriotism has its roots deep in the instincts and the affections. Love of country is the expansion of filial love.
Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel.
Patriotism is the vital condition of national permanence.
Patriotism must be founded on great principles and supported by great virtue.
Patroclus is dead, who was better by far than thou.
Patronage, that is, pecuniary or other economic furtherance, has been pronounced to be twice cursed, cursing him that gives and him that takes.
Pauca Catonis verba, sed a pleno venientia pectore veri
Pauca verba
Pauci dignoscere possunt / Vera bona, atque
illis multum diversa
Paucis carior est fides quam pecunia
Paul Pry is on the spy.
Paullatim
Paulum sepultæ distat inertiæ / Celata virtus
Pauper enim non est cui rerum suppetit usus. /
Si ventri bene, si lateri pedibusque tuis, nil / Divitiæ poterunt regales addere majus
Pauper sum, fateor, patior; quod Di dant fero
Pauper ubique jacet
Pauperism is our social sin grown manifest.
Pauperism is the general leakage through every joint of the ship that is rotten.
Paupertas est, non quæ pauca possidet, sed
quæ multa non possidet
Paupertas fugitur, totoque arcessitur orbe
Paupertatis pudor et fuga
Pauperum solatio
Pauvres gens, je les plains; car on a pour les fous / Plus de pitié que de courroux
Pavore carent qui nihil commiserunt; at
pœnam semper ob oculos versari putant qui peccarunt
Pax Cererem nutrit, pacis alumna Ceres
Pax in bello
Pax paritur bello
Pax vobiscum
Pay as you go is the philosopher's stone.
Pay beforehand if you would have your work ill done.
Pay good wages, or your servants will pay themselves.
Pay not before thy work be done; if thou dost, it will never be well done, and thou wilt have but a pennyworth for twopence.
Pay the reckoning over-night, and you won't be troubled in the morning.
Pay well when you are served well.
Pay what you owe, and what you're worth you'll know.
Pay without fail, / Down on the nail.
Pazza è chi non sa da che parte vien il vento
Peace hath her victories, / No less renown'd than war.
Peace is liberty in tranquility.
Peace is rarely denied to the peaceful.
Peace is the happy natural state of man; war his corruption, his disgrace.
Peace is the masterpiece of reason.
Peace, justice, and the word of God must be given to the people, not sold.
Peace, of all worldly blessings, is the most
valuable.
Peace with a cudgel in hand is war.
Peacefully and reasonably to contemplate is at no time hurtful, and while we use ourselves to think of the advantages of others, our own mind comes insensibly to imitate them; and every false activity to which our fancy was alluring us is then willingly abandoned.
Peccare docentes / Fallax historias movet
Peccare licet nemini
Peccavi
Péché avoué est à moitié pardonné
Pectus est quod disertos facit
Pecuniam in loco negligere / Interdum maximum est lucrum
Pecuniam perdidisti: fortasse illa te perderet manens
Pedanterie setzt ganz nothwendig Leere
Pedantry crams our heads with learned lumber, and takes out our brains to make room for it.
Pedantry is properly overrating any kind of knowledge we pretend to.
Pedibus timor addidit alas
Peevishness covers with its dark fog even the most distant horizon.
Pegasus im Joche
Peggior della morte è il turpe riposo
Peine forte et dure
Pelt all dogs that bark, and you will need many stones.
Pence well-spent are better than pence ill-spared.
Pendente lite
Pendre la crémaillère
Penetration has an air of divination; it pleases our vanity more than any other quality of the mind.
Penitus toto divisos orbe Britannos
Penny goes after penny, / Till Peter hasn't
any.
Penny wise is often pound foolish.
Pense ce que tu veux, dis ce que tu dois
Pense moult, parle peu, écris moins
Penser, vivre, et mourir en roi
Pensez à bien
People abuse freedom only where they have asserted it, not where it has been given them.
People are always expecting to get peace in heaven; but you know whatever peace they get there will be ready-made. Whatever of making peace they can be blest for must be on the earth here.
People are only accustomed to revolve around themselves.
People are rendered sociable by their inability to endure their own society.
People are wise for the past day in the evening,
but never wise enough for the coming one.
People, crushed by laws, have no hopes but from power. If laws are their enemies, they will be enemies to laws; and those who have much to hope and nothing to lose will always be dangerous, more or less.
 (_Bibelverbre
People dispute a great deal about the good that is done and the harm by disseminating this is clear: the Bible will do harm if, as hitherto, it is used dogmatically and interpreted fancifully, and it will do good if it is treated feelingly and applied didactically.
People do not care to give alms without some security for their money; and a wooden leg or a withered arm is a sort of draft upon heaven for those who choose to have their money placed to account there.
People do not lack strength; they lack will.
People do not mind their faults being spread
out before them, but they become impatient if called upon to give them up.
People in adversity should preserve laudable customs.
People (in authority) are accustomed merely to forbid, to hinder, to refuse, but rarely to bid, to further, and to reward. They let things go along till some mischief happens; then they fly into a rage, and lay about them.
People love to have all rash actions done in a hurry.
People may live as much retired from the world as they like, but sooner or later they find themselves debtor or creditor to some one.
People must begin before they attempt to finish or improve.
People seem to think themselves in some
ways superior to heaven itself, when they complain of the sorrow and want round about them; and yet it is not the devil for certain who puts pity into their hearts.
People should never sit talking till they don't know what to talk about.
People that are like-minded
can never for any length be disunited
they always come together again; whereas those that are not like-minded
they always come together again; whereas those that are not like-minded (_Widergesinnten_) 
they always come together again; whereas those that are not like-minded (_Widergesinnten_)  the essential discord between them will be sure to break out some day.
People that have nothing to do are quickly tired of their own company.
People that make puns are like wanton boys that put coppers on the railroad tracks. They amuse themselves and other children, but their little trick may upset a freight train of conversation for the sake of a battered witticism.
People that will crowd about bonfires may
sometimes very fairly, get their beards singed; it is the price they pay for such illumination; natural twilight is safe and free to all.
People throw stones only at trees which have fruit on them.
People who are always taking care of their health are like misers, who are hoarding up a treasure which they have never spirit enough to enjoy.
People who are too sharp cut their own fingers.
People who can't be witty exert themselves to be pious and affectionate.
People who do not know how to laugh are always
pompous and self-conceited.
People who have little to do are great talkers. The less they think the more they talk, and so women talk more than men. A nation where women determine the fashion is always talkative.
People who honestly mean to be true really contradict themselves much more rarely than those who try to be consistent.
People who live in glass houses should never throw stones.
People who never have any time are those who do least.
People will not look forward to posterity who
never look backward to their ancestors.
People would do well if, tarrying here for years together, they observed a while a Pythagorean silence.
People would do well if they would keep piety, which is so essential and lovable in life, distinct from art, where, owing to its very simplicity and dignity, it checks their energy, allowing only the very highest mind freedom to unite with, if not actually to master, it.
Per accidens
Per acuta belli
Per angusta ad augusta
Per annum
Per ardua liberi
Per aspera ad astra
Per contra
Per Deum et ferrum obtinui
Per fas et nefas
Per il suo contrario
Per incuriam
Per mare per terram
Per obitum
Per quod servitium amisit
Per saltam
Per undas et ignes fluctuat nec mergitur
Per varios casus, per tot discrimina rerum
Per vias rectas
Peras imposuit Jupiter nobis duas; / Propriis repletam vitiis post tergum dedit. / Alienis ante pectus suspendit gravem
Percunctatorem fugito, nam garrulus idem est; / Nec retinent patulæ commissa fideliter aures
Perdidit arma, locum virtutis deseruit, qui / Semper in augenda festinat et obruitur re
Perdis, et in damno gratia nulla tuo
Pereant amici, dum una inimici intercidant
Pereunt et imputantur
Perfect existence can only be where spirit and body are one; an embodied spirit, a spiritual body.
Perfect experience must itself embrace theoretical knowledge.
Perfect life is ever in one's acts to deal with innocence, which proves itself in doing wrong to no one but itself.
Perfect light / Would dazzle, not illuminate, the sight; / From earth it is enough to glimpse at heaven.
Perfect love canna be without equality.
Perfect love casteth out fear.
Perfect love holds the secret of the world's perfect liberty.
Perfect woman, nobly planned, / To warn, to
comfort, and command; / And yet a spirit still, and bright / With something of an angel light.
Perfect works are rare, because they must be produced at the happy moment when taste and genius unite: and this rare conjunction, like that of certain planets, appears to occur only after the revolution of several cycles, and only lasts for an instant.
Perfecting is our destiny, but perfection is never our lot.
Perfection is not the affair of the scholar; it is enough if he practises.
Perfer et obdura; dolor hic tibi proderit olim
Perfer et obdura; multo graviora tulisti
Perfervidum ingenium Scotorum
Perfida, sed quamvis perfida, cara tamen
Pergis pugnantia secum / Frontibus adversis componere
"Perhaps" hinders folks from lying.
Perhaps propriety is as near a word as any to
denote the manners of the gentleman.
Perhaps the early grave / Which men weep over may be meant to save.
Periculosæ plenum opus aleæ / Tractas, et incedis per ignes / Suppositos cineri doloso
Periculosum est credere et non credere; / Ergo exploranda est veritas, multam prius / Quam stulta prave judicet sententia
Periculum in mora
Perierunt tempora longi / Servitii
Perimus licitis
Perish discretion when it interferes with duty.
Périsse l'univers pourvu que je me venge!
Périssons en résistant!
Perituræ parcite chartæ
Perjuria ridet amantum Jupiter
Perjurii pœna divina exitium, humana dedecus
Perlen bedeuten Thränen
Permanence is what I advocate in all human relations; nomadism, continual change, is prohibitory of any good whatsoever.
Permanence, perseverance, persistence in spite
of hindrances, discouragements, and "impossibilities:" it is this that in all things distinguishes the strong soul from the weak; the civilised burgher from the nomadic savage--the species Man from the genus Ape.
Permanence, persistence, is the first condition of all fruitfulness in the ways of men.
Permissu superiorum
Permitte divis cætera
Perpetual solitude, in a place where you see nothing to raise your spirits, at length wears them out, and conversation falls into dull and insipid.
Perpetuus nulli datur usus, et hæres / Hæredem
alterius, velut unda supervenit undam
Persecution is a tribute the great must ever pay for pre-eminence.
Persecution is not wrong because it is cruel; it is cruel because it is wrong.
Persecution to persons in high rank stands them in the stead of eminent virtue.
Perseverance and audacity generally win.
Perseverance and tact are the two great
qualities most valuable for all men who would mount, but especially for those who have to step out of the crowd.
Perseverance, dear, my lord, / Keeps honour bright. To have done is to hang / Quite out of fashion, like a rusty mail, / In monumental mockery.
Perseverance is a Roman virtue that wins each godlike act, and plucks success even from the spear-proof crest of rugged danger.
Perseverance performs greater works than strength.
Perseverance, self-reliance, energetic effort, are doubly strengthened when you rise from a failure to battle again.
Perseverando
Perseverantia
Persevere and never fear.
Persevere in the fight, struggle on, do not let go, think magnanimously of man and life, for man is good and life is affluent and fruitful.
Persist, persevere, and you will find most things attainable that are possible.
Personæ mutæ
Personal attachment is no fit ground for public conduct, and those who declare they will take care of the rights of the sovereign because they have received favours at his hand, betray a little mind and warrant the conclusion that if they did not receive those favours they would be less mindful of their duties, and act with less zeal for his interest.
Personal force never goes out of fashion.
Personality is everything in art and poetry.
Persons are love's world, and the coldest philosopher cannot recount the debt of the young soul, wandering here in nature to the power of love, without being tempted to unsay, as treasonable to nature, aught derogatory to the social instincts.
Persons of fine manners make behaviour the first sign of force,--behaviour, and not performance, or talent, or, much less, wealth.
Persons who are very plausible and excessively
polite have generally some design upon you, as also religionists who call you "dear" the first time they see you.
Perspicuity is the offset of profound thoughts.
Persuasion is better than force.
Peter's in, Paul's out.
Petit homme abat grand chêne
Petit maître
Petite étincelle luit en ténèbres
Petites affiches
Petites maisons
Petitio principii
Petitioners for admittance into favour must
not harass the condescension of their benefactor.
Petits soins
Petty laws breed great crimes.
Peu d'hommes ont été admirés par leurs domestiques
Peu de bien, peu de soin
Peu de chose nous console, parceque peu de
chose nous afflige
Peu de gens savent être vieux
Peu de gens sont assez sages pour préférer le blame qui leur est utile, à la louange qui les trahit
Peu de moyens, beaucoup d'effet
Peu de philosophie mène à méspriser l'érudition; beaucoup de philosophie mène à l'estimer
Peu et bien
Peuples libres, souvenez-vous de cette maxime: on peut acquérir la liberté, mais on ne la retrouve jamais
Phaeton was his father's heir; born to attain the highest fortune without earning it; he had built no sun-chariot (could not build the simplest wheel-barrow), but could and would insist on driving one; and so broke his own stiff neck, sent gig and horses spinning through infinite space, and set the universe on fire.
Pharmaca das ægroto, aurum tibi porrigit æger, / Tu morbum curas illius, ille tuum
Philanthropy, like charity, must begin at home.
"Philistine" must have originally meant, in the mind of those who invented the nickname, a strong, dogged, unenlightened opponent of the children of the light.
Philologists, who chase / A panting syllable through time and space, / Start it at home, and hunt it in the dark / To Gaul, to Greece, and into Noah's ark.
Philosophers are only men in armour after all.
Philosophers call God "the great unknown." "The great misknown" would be more correct.
Philosophia simulari potest, eloquentia non potest
Philosophy and theology are become theorem, brain-web and shadow, wherein no earnest soul can find solidity for itself. Shadow, I say; yet shadow projected from an everlasting reality within ourselves. Quit the shadow, seek the reality.
Philosophy can add to our happiness in no other manner but by diminishing our misery; it should not pretend to increase our present stock, but make us economists of what we are possessed of.
Philosophy can bake no bread; but she can
procure for us God, freedom, immortality. Which, then, is more practical--philosophy or economy?
Philosophy does not regard pedigree; she did not receive Plato as a noble, but she made him so.
Philosophy dwells aloft in the Temple of Science, the divinity of its inmost shrine; her dictates descend among men, but she herself descends not; whoso would behold her must climb with long and laborious effort, nay, still linger in the forecourt, till manifold trial have proved him worthy of admission into the interior solemnities.
Philosophy easily triumphs over past and future ills, but present ills triumph over philosophy.
Philosophy goes no further than probabilities, and in every assertion keeps a doubt in reserve.
Philosophy has given several plausible rules
for attaining peace and tranquillity, but they fall very much short of bringing men to it.
Philosophy is a bully that talks very loud when the danger is at a distance; but the moment she is hard pressed by the enemy, she is not to be found at her post, but leaves the brunt of the battle to be borne by her humbler but steadier comrade, Religion.
Philosophy is a good horse in a stable, but an arrant jade on a journey.
Philosophy is an elegant thing, if any one modestly meddles with it; but, if he is conversant with it more than is becoming, it corrupts the man.
Philosophy is but a continual battle against custom; an ever-renewed effort to transcend the sphere of blind custom, and so become transcendental.
Philosophy is no more than the art of making ourselves happy; that is, of seeking pleasure in regularity, and reconciling what we owe to society with what is due to ourselves.
Philosophy is nothing but discretion.
Philosophy is properly home-sickness; the wish to be everywhere at home.
Philosophy is reason with the eyes of the soul.
Philosophy is to poetry what old age is to youth; and the stern truths of philosophy are as fatal to the fictions of the one as the chilling testimonies of experience are to the hopes of the other.
Philosophy, rightly defined, is simply the love of wisdom.
Philosophy teaches us to do willingly and
from conviction what others do under compulsion.
Philosophy, when superficially studied, excites doubt; when thoroughly explored, it dispels it.
Philosophy, while it soothes the reason, damps the ambition.
Philosophy will clip an angel's wings.
Phœnices primi, famæ si creditur, ausi / Mansuram
rudibus vocem signare figuris
Physic, for the most part, is nothing else but the substitute of exercise and temperance.
Physic is of little use to a temperate person, for a man's own observation on what he finds does him good or what hurts him, is the best physic to preserve health.
Physical courage, which despises all danger, will make a man brave in one way; and moral courage, which defies all opinion, will make a man brave in another.
Physical science has taught us to associate Deity with the normal rather than with the abnormal.
Physician, heal thyself.
Physicians, of all men, are most happy; whatever good success soever they have, the world proclaimeth; and what faults they commit, the earth covereth.
Pia fraus
Pick out of mirth, like stones out of thy ground, / Profaneness, filthiness, abusiveness.
Pickpockets and beggars are the best practical physiognomists, without having read a line of Lavater, who, it is notorious, mistook a philosopher for a highwayman.
Pictoribus atque poetis / Quidlibet audendi
semper fuit æqua potestas
Pictures and shapes are but secondary objects, and please or displease but in memory.
Pie repone te
Pièce de position
Pièce de résistance
Pièces de théâtre
Piety is a kind of modesty. It makes us cast down our thoughts, just as modesty makes us cast down our eyes in presence of whatever is forbidden.
Piety is not a religion, although it is the soul of all religions.
Piety is only a means whereby, through purest inward peace, we may attain to highest culture.
Piety, like wisdom, consists in the discovery of the rules under which we are actually placed, and in faithfully obeying them.
Piety, stretched beyond a certain point, is the
parent of impiety.
Pigmæi gigantum humeris impositi plusquam ipsi gigantes vident
Pigmies are pigmies still, though perched on Alps; / And pyramids are pyramids in vales.
Pigs grow fat where lambs would starve.
Pigs grunt about everything and nothing.
Pigs when they fly go tail first.
Pikes are caught when little fish go by.
Pillen muss man schlingen, nicht kauen
Pin thy faith to no man's sleeve; hast thou not two eyes of thy own?
Pinguis venter non gignit sensum tenuem
Pis-aller
Pitch a lucky man into the Nile and he will come up with a fish in his mouth.
Pitch thy behaviour low, thy projects high; / So shalt thou humble and magnanimous be.
Pith's gude at a' play but threadin' o' needles.
Pity and friendship are passions incompatible with each other.
Pity and need make all flesh kin. There is no
caste in blood / Which runneth of one hue; nor caste in tears, which trickle salt with all.
Pity him who has his choice, and chooses the worse.
Pity is a thing often avowed, seldom felt; hatred is a thing often felt, seldom avowed.
Pity is imagination or fiction of future calamity to ourselves proceeding from the sense of another man's calamity.
Pity is the virtue of the law, / And none but tyrants use it cruelly.
Pity makes the world / Soft to the weak and
noble for the strong.
Pity only with new objects stays, / But with the tedious sight of woe decays.
Pity shapes not into syllogisms; / Nor can affection ape philosophy.
Pity, the tenderest part of love.
Pity those whom Nature abuses, never those who abuse Nature.
Pity weakness and ignorance, bear with the
dulness of understandings, or perverseness of tempers.
Più ombra che frutto fanno gli arberi grandi
Più sa il matto in casa sua che il savio in casa d'altri
Più vale il fumo di casa mia, che il fuoco dell'altrui
Place moral heroes in the field, and heroines will follow them as brides.
Placeat homini quidquid Deo placuit
Plagiarists are always suspicious of being stolen from.
Plagiarists, at least, have the merit of preservation.
Plain dealing is dead, and died without issue.
Plain dealing's a jewel, but they that use it die beggars.
Plain living and high thinking.
Plants are children of the earth; we are children of the ether. Our lungs are properly our root; we live when we breathe: we begin our life with breathing.
Plaster thick, / Some will stick.
Plate sin with gold, / And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks; / Arm it in rags, a pigmy's straw does pierce it.
Plato enim mihi unus est instar omnium
Plato's scheme was impossible even in his own
day, as Bacon's "New Atlantis" in his day, as Calvin's reform in his day, as Goethe's "Academe" in his. Out of the good there was in all these men, the world gathered what it could find of evil, made its useless Platonism out of Plato, its graceless Calvinism out of Calvin, determined Bacon to be the meanest of mankind, and of Goethe gathered only a luscious story of seduction, and daintily singable devilry.
Plausibus ex ipsis populi, lætoque furore, / ingenium quodvis incaluisse potest
Plausus tunc arte carebat
Play not for gain, but sport.
Play, that is, activity, not pleasures, will keep children cheerful.
Play the man.
Pleasant tastes depend, not on the things themselves, but their agreeableness to this or that particular palate.
Pleasant words are as an honeycomb; sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
Pleas'd with a rattle, tickl'd with a straw.
Pleasure and action make the hours seem short.
Pleasure and pain, though directly opposite,
are yet so contrived by nature as to be constant companions.
Pleasure and revenge / Have ears more deaf than adders to the voice / Of any true decision.
Pleasure and sympathy in things is all that is real and again produces reality; all else is empty and vain.
Pleasure can be supported by illusion; but happiness rests upon truth.
Pleasure is a wanton trout; / An ye drink but deep ye'll find him out.
Pleasure is far sweeter as a recreation than a
business.
Pleasure is nothing else but the intermission of pain, the enjoying of something I am in great trouble for till I get it.
Pleasure is the greatest incentive to evil.
Pleasure is the reflex of unimpeded energy.
Pleasure itself is painful at bottom.
Pleasure of every kind quickly satisfies.
Pleasure preconceived and preconcerted ends in disappointment; but disappointment, when it involves neither shame nor loss, is as good as success; for it supplies as many images to the mind, and as many topics to the tongue.
Pleasure soon exhausts us, and itself also but endeavour never does.
Pleasure which cannot be obtained but by unreasonable and unsuitable expense, must always end in pain.
Pleasure which must be enjoyed at the expense of another's pain, can never be such as a worthy mind can fully delight in.
Pleasure's couch is virtue's grave.
Pleasures are like poppies spread, / You seize the flower, its bloom is shed; / Or, like the snowflake in the river, / A moment white, then melts for ever.
Pleasures lie thickest where no pleasures seem; / There's not a leaf that falls upon the ground / But holds some joy of silence or of sound, / Some sprite begotten of a summer dream.
Pleasures waste the spirits more than pains.
Pledges taken of faithless minds, / I hold them but as the idle winds / Heard and forgot.
Plenty, and peace, breeds cowards; hardness
ever of hardiness is mother.
Plenty makes dainty.
Plerique enim lacrimas fundunt ut ostendant; et toties siccos oculos habent, quoties spectator definit
Plerumque modestus / Occupat obscuri speciem, taciturnus acerbi
Ploratur lacrymis amissa pecunia veris
Ploravere suis non respondere favorem / Speratum meritis
Plough deep while sluggards sleep.
Plough or not plough, you must pay your rent.
Plunge boldly into the thick of life, and seize it where you will, it is always interesting.
Plura faciunt homines e consuetudine quam e ratione
Plura sunt quæ nos terrent, quam quæ premunt; et sæpius opinione quam re laboramus
Plures adorant solem orientem quam occidentem
Plures crapula quam gladius
Plurima mortis imago
Plurima sont quæ / Non audent homines pertusa dicere læna
Pluris est oculatus testis unus quam auriti decem. / Qui audiunt, audita dicunt: qui vident, plane sciunt
Plus aloes quam mellis habet
Plus dolet quam necesse est, qui ante dolet
quam necesse est
Plus etenim fati valet hora benigni / Quam si nos Veneris commendet epistola Marti
Plus fait douceur que violence
Plus impetus, majorem constantiam, penes miseros
Plus in amicitia valet similitudo morum quam affinitas
Plus in posse quam in actu
Plus je vis l'étranger, plus j'aimai ma patrie
Plus on approche des grands hommes, plus on trouve qu'ils sont hommes
Plus on lui ôte, plus il est grand
Plus ratio quam vis cæca valere solet
Plus salis quam sumptus
Plus une pierre est jétée de haut, plus elle fait d'impression où elle tombe
Plus vetustis nam favet / Invidia mordax, quam bonis præsentibus
Plutarch warns young men that it is well to go for a light to another man's fire, but by no means to tarry by it, instead of kindling a torch of their own.
Plutôt une défaite au Rhin que l'abandon du Pape!
Poco daño espanta, y mucho amansa
Poem (a) is a thought so passionate and alive, that, like the spirit of a plant or an animal, it has an architecture of its own, and adorns nature with a new thing.
Poems that are great, books that are great, all of them, if you search the first foundation of their greatness, have been veridical, the truest they could get to be.
Poesie ist tiefes Schmerzen, / Und es kommt das echte Lied / Einzig aus dem Menschenherzen / Das ein tiefes Leid durchglüht
Poesy is love's chosen apostle, and the very almoner of God. She is the home of the outcast, and the wealth of the needy.
Poesy is of so subtle a spirit, that in pouring
out of one language into another it will evaporate.
Poeta nascitur, non fit
Poetica surgit / Tempestas
Poetry comes nearer to vital truth than history.
Poetry creates life.
Poetry has given me the habit of wishing to
discover the good and the beautiful in all that meets and surrounds me.
Poetry implies the whole truth, philosophy expresses a particle of it.
Poetry incorporates those spirits which, like angels, can never assume the body of an outward act; and sheds the perfume of those flowers which spring up but never bear any seed.
Poetry interprets in two ways: by expressing with magical felicity the physiognomy and movements of the outer world; and by expressing with inward conviction the ideas and laws of the inward.
Poetry is a spirit, not disembodied, but in the flesh, so as to affect the senses of living men.
Poetry is always a personal interpretation of
life.
Poetry is an art, the easiest to dabble in, and the hardest in which to reach true excellence.
Poetry is an attempt man makes to render his existence harmonious.
Poetry is faith.
Poetry is inestimable as a lonely faith, a lonely protest in the uproar of atheism.
Poetry is inspiration; has in it a certain spirituality
and divinity which no dissecting knife will discover; arises in the most secret and most sacred region of man's soul, as it were in our Holy of Holies; and as for external things, depends only on such as can operate in that region; among which it will be found that Acts of Parliament and the state of Smithfield Markets nowise play the chief parts.
Poetry is music in words, and music is poetry in sound; both excellent sauce, but they have lived and died poor that made them their meal.
Poetry is musical thought, thought of a mind that has penetrated into the inmost heart of a thing, detected the melody that lies hidden in it, ... the heart of Nature being everywhere music, if you can only reach it.
Poetry is only born after painful journeys into the vast regions of thought.
Poetry is right royal. It puts the individual for the species, the one above the infinite many.
Poetry is something to make us wiser and
better by continually revealing those types of beauty and truth which God has set in all men's souls.
Poetry is the art of substantiating shadows and of lending existence to nothing.
Poetry is the art of uniting pleasure with truth by calling imagination to the help of reason.
Poetry is the breath and finer spirit of all knowledge; it is the impassioned expression which is the countenance of all science.
Poetry is the exquisite expression of exquisite impressions.
Poetry is the first and last of all knowledge--it
is as immortal as the heart of man.
Poetry is the key to the hieroglyphics of nature.
Poetry is the language of feeling.
Poetry is the morning dream of great minds.
Poetry is the music of the soul; and, above all, of great and feeling souls.
Poetry is the offspring of the rarest beauty,
begot by imagination upon thought, and clad by taste and fancy in habiliments of grace.
Poetry is the only verity, the expression of a sound mind speaking after the ideal, and not after the apparent.
Poetry is the perpetual endeavour to express the spirit of the thing; to pass the brute body, and search the life and reason which cause it to exist; to see that the object is always flowing away, whilst the spirit or necessity which causes it subsists.
Poetry is the record of the best and happiest moments of the happiest and best minds.
Poetry is the utterance of truth,--deep, heartfelt truth. The true poet is very near the oracle.
Poetry is the worst mask in the world behind
which folly and stupidity could attempt to hide their features.
Poetry itself is strength and joy, whether it be crowned by all mankind, or left alone in its own magic hermitage.
Poetry must first be good sense, though it is something better.
Poetry ought to go straight to the heart, because it has come from the heart; and aim at the man in the citizen, and not the citizen in the man.
Poetry says more and in fewer words than prose.
Poetry should be great and unobtrusive.
Poetry should be vital, either stirring our blood by its divine movements, or snatching our breath by its divine perfection.
Poetry uses the rainbow tints for special effects, but always keeps its essential object in the purest white light of truth.
Poetry was given to us to hide the little discords of life and to make man contented with the world and his condition.
Poetry, were it the rudest, so it be sincere, is the attempt which man makes to render his existence harmonious, the utmost he can do for that end; it springs therefore from his whole feelings, opinions, activity, and takes its character from these. It may be called the music of the whole inner being.
Poets and heroes are of the same race; the
latter do what the former conceive.
Poets and painters ha'e leave to lee.
Poets are all who love, who feel great truths, and tell them.
Poets are liberating gods; they are free and make free.
Poets are natural sayers, sent into the world for the end of expression.
Poets are never young in one sense. Their
delicate ear hears the far-off whispers of eternity, which coarser souls must travel towards for scores of years before their dull sense is touched by them. A moment's insight is sometimes worth a life's experience.
Poets are the hierophants of an unapprehended inspiration, the mirrors of the gigantic shadows which futurity casts upon the present.
Poets are the unacknowledged legislators of the world.
Poets lose half the praise they should have got, / Could it be known what they discreetly blot.
Poets of old date, being privileged with senses, had also enjoyed external Nature; but chiefly as we enjoy the crystal cup which holds good or bad liquor for us; that is to say, in silence, or with slight incidental commentary; never, as I compute, till after the "Sorrows of Werter" was there man found who would say: Come, let us make a description: Having drunk the liquor, Come, let us eat the glass.
Poets should be lawgivers; that is, the boldest lyric inspiration should not chide and insult, but should announce and lead the civil code, the day's work.
Poets should turn philosophers in age, as Pope did. We are apt to grow chilly when we sit out our fire.
Poets utter great and wise things which they do not themselves understand.
Point d'argent, point de Suisse
Policy sits above conscience.
Polished steel will not shine in the dark; no more can reason, however refined, shine efficaciously but as it reflects the light of Divine truth shed from heaven.
Politeness is benevolence in small things.
Politeness is real kindness kindly expressed.
Politeness is the flower of humanity.
Politeness is to goodness what words are to
thoughts.
Politeness makes a man appear outwardly as he should be within.
Political liberty is to be found only in moderate governments.
Politicians think that by stopping up the chimney they can stop its smoking. They try the experiment; they drive the smoke back, and there is more smoke than ever.
Politics is a deleterious profession, like some poisonous handicrafts.
Politics is the science of exigencies.
Pompa mortis magis terret quam mors ipsa
Ponamus nimios gemitus; flagrantior æquo /
Non debet dolor esse viri, nec vulnere major
Ponderanda sunt testimonia, non numeranda
Pone seram, cohibe; sed quis custodiet ipsos / Custodes? cauta est, et ab illis incipit uxor
Pons asinorum
Ponto nox incubat atra, / Intonuere poli et crebris micat ignibus æther
Poor and content is rich and rich enough; /
But riches fineless is as poor as winter / To him that ever fears he shall be poor.
Poor folk hae neither ony kindred nor ony freends.
Poor folk seek meat for their stomachs, and rich folks stomachs for their meat.
Poor folks are glad of porridge.
Poor folks must say "Thank ye" for little.
Poor folk's wisdom goes for little.
Poor in abundance, famished at a feast, man's grief is but his grandeur in disguise, and discontent is immortality.
Poor is the triumph o'er the timid hare.
Poor love is lost in men's capacious minds; / In women's it fills all the room it finds.
Poor men do penance for rich men's sins.
Poor men, when Yule is cold, / Must be content
to sit by little fires.
Poor men's tables are soon placed.
Poor naked wretches, wheresoe'er you are, / That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm, / How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides, / Your looped and windowed raggedness, defend you / From seasons such as these? O I have ta'en / Too little care of this!


Poor tenant bodies, scant o' cash, / How they stamp and threaten, curse and swear, / He'll apprehend them, poind their gear; / While An' hear it a', and fear and tremble!
Poor the raiment you may wear, / Scanty fare at best be thine; / Let the soul within be clothed / With a majesty divine.
Poor though I am, despised, forgot, / Yet God,
my God, forgets me not; / And he is safe, and must succeed, / For whom the Lord vouchsafes to plead.
Poor, wandering, wayward man! Art thou not tired, and beaten with stripes, even as I am? Ever, whether thou bear the royal mantle or the beggar's gaberdine, art thou so weary, so heavy-laden; and thy bed of rest is but a grave.
Poor when I have, poor when I haven't, poor will I ever be.
Poortith
Popular glory is a perfect coquette; her lovers must toil, feel every inquietude, indulge every caprice, and perhaps at last be jilted into the bargain.
Popular opinion is the greatest lie in the world.
Popular opinions, on subjects not palpable to sense, are often true, but seldom or never the whole truth.
Popularity is a blaze of illumination, or alas! of conflagration, kindled round a man; showing what is in him; not putting the smallest item more into him; often abstracting much from him; conflagrating the poor man himself into ashes and "caput mortuum."
Populus me sibilat; at mihi plaudo / Ipse domi, simul ac nummos contemplor in arca
Populus vult decipi; decipiatur
Por mucho madrugar, no amanéce mas aina
Porcus Epicuri
Porro unum est necessarium
Porte fermée, le diable s'en va
Portrait-painting may be to the painter what the practical knowledge of the world is to the poet, provided he considers it as a school by which he is to acquire the means of perfection in his art, and not as the object of that perfection.
Portraiture is the basis and the touchstone of historic painting.
Positive happiness is constitutional and incapable of increase; misery is artificial, and generally proceeds from our folly.
Positiveness is a good quality for preachers and orators, because whoever would obtrude his thoughts and reasons upon a multitude, win convince others the more as he appears convinced himself.
Posse comitatus
Possession is nine-tenths of the law.
Possession of land implies the duty of living on it, and by it, if there is enough to live on; then ... if there is more land than enough for one's self, the duty of making it fruitful and beautiful for as many more as can live on it.
Possunt quia posse videntur
Post bellum auxilium
Post cineres gloria sera venit
Post epulas stabis vel passus mille meabis
Post equitem sedet atra cura
Post hoc; ergo propter hoc
Post mediam noctem visus quum somnia vera
Post nubila Phœbus
Post prælia præmia
Post tenebras lux
Post tot naufragia portum
Posthumous charities are the very essence of selfishness, when bequeathed by those who, when alive, would part with nothing.
Postulata
Pot! don't call the kettle black.
Potatoes don't grow by the side of the pot.
Potentissimus est, qui se habet in potestate
Potter is jealous of potter, and craftsman of craftsman; and poor man has a grudge against poor man, and poet against poet.
Pound an almond, and the clear white colour will be altered into a dirty one, and the sweet taste into an oily one.
Pour avoir du goût, il faut avoir de l'âme
Pour bien connaître un homme il faut avoir mangé un boisseau de sel avec lui
Pour bien désirer
Pour bien instruire, il ne faut pas dire tout ce
qu'on sait, mais seulement ce qui convient à ceux qu'on instruit
Pour comble de bonheur
Pour connaître le prix de l'argent, il faut être obligé d'en emprunter
Pour connaître les autres, il faut se connaître soi-même
Pour couper court
Pour dompter les anglais, / Il faut bâtir un
pont / Sur le Pas-de-Calais
Pour encourager les autres
Pour être assez bon, il faut l'être trop
Pour exécuter de grandes choses il faut vivre comme si on ne devait jamais mourir
Pour faire de l'esprit
Pour faire rire
Pour faire un bon ménage il faut que l'homme soit sourd et la femme aveugle
Pour forth thy fervours for a healthful mind, / Obedient passions, and a will resigned; / For love, which scarce collective man can fill; / For patience, sovereign o'er transmuted ill; / For faith, that, panting for a happier seat, / Counts death kind Nature's signal of retreat.
Pour grands que soient les rois, ils sont ce que nous sommes; / Ils peuvent se tromper comme les autres hommes
Pour l'ordinaire la fortune nous vend bien chèrement, ce qu'on croit qu'elle nous donne
Pour parvenir à bonne foy
Pour qui ne les croit pas, il n'est pas de prodiges
Pour ranger le loup, il faut le marier
Pour savoir quelles étoient véritablement les opinions des hommes, je devois plutôt prendre garde à ce qu'ils pratiquoient qu'à ce qu'ils disoient
Pour se faire valoir
Pour s'établir dans le monde, on fait tout ce que l'on peut pour y paraître établi
Pour soutenir les droits que le ciel autorise, / Abîme tout plutôt; c'est l'esprit de l'église
Pour tromper un rival l'artifice est permis: /
On peut tout employer contre ses ennemis
Pour un plaisir mille douleurs
Pour y parvenir
Povertà non ha parenti
Poverty and hunger have many learned disciples.
Poverty breeds strife.
Poverty breeds wealth, and wealth in its turn breeds poverty. The earth to form the mould is taken out of the ditch; and whatever may be the height of the one will be the depth of the other.
Poverty consists in feeling poor.
Poverty demoralises.
Poverty ever comes at the call.
Poverty has no greater foe than bashfulness.
Poverty, incessant drudgery, and much worse evils, it has often been the lot of poets and wise men to strive with, and their glory to conquer.
Poverty is but as the pain of piercing the ears of a maiden, and you hang jewels in the wound.
Poverty is in want of much, avarice of everything.
Poverty is no crime and no credit.
Poverty is not a shame, but the being ashamed
of it is.
Poverty is often concealed in splendour, and often in extravagance. It is the care of a great part of mankind to conceal their indigence from the rest. They support themselves by temporary expedients, and everyday is lost in contriving for to-morrow.
Poverty is the mither
Poverty is the only load which is the heavier the more loved ones there are to assist in supporting it.
Poverty is the reward of idleness.
Poverty makes people satirical--soberly, sadly,
bitterly satirical.
Poverty of soul is irreparable.
Poverty often deprives a man of all spirit and virtue. It is hard for an empty bag to stand upright.
Poverty palls the most generous spirits; it cows industry and casts resolution itself into despair.
Poverty persuades a man to do and suffer everything that he may escape from it.
Poverty should engender an honest pride, that
it may not lead and tempt us to unworthy actions.
Poverty sits by the cradle of all our great men, and rocks them up to manhood.
Poverty snatches the reins out of the hands of piety.
Poverty takes away so many means of doing good, and produces so much inability to resist evil, both natural and moral, that it is by all virtuous means to be avoided.
Poverty treads upon the heels of great and unexpected riches.
Poverty wants some, luxury many, and avarice
all things.
Power and permanence reside only in limitations.
Power belongeth unto God.
Power cannot have too gentle an expression.
Power exercised with violence has seldom been of long duration, but temper and moderation generally produce permanence in all things.
Power, in its quality and degree, is the
measure of manhood.
Power is according to quality, not quantity. How much more are men than nations?
Power is ever stealing from the many to the few.
Power is no blessing in itself, but when it is employed to protect the innocent.
Power is nothing but as it is felt, and the delight of superiority is proportionate to the resistance overcome.
Power is so characteristically calm, that calmness
in itself has the aspect of strength.
Power, like a desolating pestilence, / Pollutes whate'er it touches; and obedience, / Bane of all genius, virtue, freedom, truth, / Makes slaves of men, and of the human frame a mechanized automaton.
Power, like the diamond, dazzles the beholder, and also the wearer; it dignifies meanness; it magnifies littleness; to what is contemptible, it gives authority; to what is low, exaltation.
Power to do good is the true and lawful end of aspiring.
Power will intoxicate the best hearts, as wine the strongest heads. No man is wise enough, no man good enough, to be trusted with unlimited power.
Power's footstool is opinion, and his throne the
human heart.
Powerful attachment will give a man spirit and confidence which he could by no means call up or command of himself; and in this mood he can do wonders which would not be possible to him without it.
Practically men have come to imagine that the laws of this universe, like the laws of constitutional countries, are decided by voting; that it is all a study of division-lists, and for the universe too depends a little on the activity of the whippers-in.
Practice aims at what is immediate; speculation at what is remote. In practical life, the wisest and soundest men avoid speculation, and ensure success, because, by limiting their range, they increase the tenacity with which they grasp events, while in speculative life the course is exactly the reverse, since in that department the greater the range the greater the command.
Practice in time becomes second nature.
Practice is everything.
Practice makes perfect.
Practice must settle the habit of doing without reflecting on the rule.
Practise thrift, or else you'll drift.
Præcedentibus insta
Præcepta ducunt, at exempla trahunt
Præmia virtutis honores
Præsis ut prosis
Præsto et persto
Praise a fool and you may make him useful.
Praise a fool, and you water his folly.
Praise follows truth afar off, and only overtakes
her at the grave. Plausibility clings to her skirts and holds her back till then.
Praise from an enemy is the most pleasing of all commendations.
Praise God more, and blame neighbours less.
Praise is indeed the consequence and encouragement of virtue; but it is sometimes so unseasonably applied as to become its bane and corruption too.
Praise is so pleasing to the mind of man that it is the original motive of almost all our actions.
Praise is the tribute of men, but felicity the
gift of God.
Praise is virtue's shadow; who courts her doth more the handmaid than the dame admire.
Praise, like gold and diamonds, owes its value only to its scarcity.
Praise makes good men better, and bad men worse.
Praise Peter, but don't find fault with Paul.
Praise the bridge which carries you over.
Praise the hill, but keep below.
Praise the sea, but keep on land.
Praise undeserved is satire in disguise.
Pray devoutly, / And hammer stoutly.
Pray to God, but keep the hammer going.
Pray to God, sailor, but pull for the shore.
Prayer and practice is good rhyme.
Prayer and provender never hinder a journey.
Prayer is a groan.
Prayer is a powerful thing; for God has bound and tied himself thereto.
Prayer is a shield to the soul, a sacrifice to God, and a scourge to Satan.
Prayer is a study of truth,--a sally of the soul into the unfound infinite.
Prayer is a turning of one's soul, in heroic reverence, in infinite desire and endeavour, towards the Highest, the All-excellent, Supreme.
Prayer is intended to increase the devotion of
the individual, but if the individual himself prays he requires no formulæ.... Real inward devotion knows no prayer but that arising from the depths of its own feelings.
Prayer is the aspiration of our poor, struggling, heavy-laden soul towards its Eternal Father, and, with or without words, ought not to become impossible, nor need it ever. Loyal sons and subjects can approach the King's throne who have no "request" to make there except that they may continue loyal.
Prayer is the cable, at whose end appears / The anchor hope, ne'er slipp'd but in our fears.
Prayer is the Christian's vital breath, / The Christian's native air.
Prayer is the slender nerve that moves the muscles of Omnipotence.
Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, / Uttered
or unexpressed, / The motion of a hidden fire that trembles in the breast.
Prayer is the wing wherewith the soul flies to heaven; and meditation the eye with which we see God.
Prayer knocks till the door opens.
Prayer, like Jonathan's bow, returns not empty.
Prayer moves the hand that moves the universe.
Prayer must not come from the roof of the
mouth, but from the root of the heart.
Prayer purifies; it is a self-preached sermon.
Prayer should be the key of the day and the lock of the night.
Prayer that craves a particular commodity, anything less than all good, is vicious. As a means to effect a private end, it is meanness and theft.
Prayers are but the body of the bird; desires are its angel's wings.
Praying's the end of preaching.
Preaching is of much avail, but practice is far more effective. A godly life is the strongest argument that you can offer to the sceptic.
Preaching is the expression of the moral sentiment in application to the duties of life.
Précepte commence, exemple achève
Precepts or maxims are of great weight; and a few useful ones at hand do more toward a happy life than whole volumes that we know not where to find.
Preces armatæ
Precious beyond price are good resolutions. Valuable beyond price are good feelings.
Precious ointments are put in small boxes.
Predominant opinions are generally the
opinions of the generation that is vanishing.
Prefer loss before unjust gain; for that brings grief but once, this for ever.
Prejudice is a prophet which prophesies only evil.
Prejudice is the child of ignorance.
Prejudice squints when it looks, and lies when it talks.
Prejudice, which he pretends to hate, is man's
absolute lawgiver; mere use-and-wont everywhere leads him by the nose: thus let but a rising of the sun, let but a creation of the world happen twice, and it ceases to be marvellous, to be noteworthy or noticeable.
Prendre la clef des champs
Prendre les choses au pis
Prends le premier conseil d'une femme et non le second
Prends moi tel que je suis
Present fears / Are less than horrible imaginings.
Preserve the rights of inferior places, and think it more honour to direct in chief than to be busy in all.
Pressure alone causes water to rise and directs it.
Presumption is our natural and original disease.
Presumptuousness, which audaciously strides over all the steps of gradual culture, affords little encouragement to hope for any masterpiece.
Prêt d'accomplir
Prêt pour mon pays
"Pretty Pussy" will not feed a cat.
Prevention is better than cure.
Pria Veneziani, poi Christiane
Pride adds to a man's stature; vanity only
puffs him out.
Pride and grace ne'er dwell in ae place.
Pride and poverty are ill met, yet often live together.
Pride feels no cold.
Pride flows from want of reflection and ignorance of ourselves. Knowledge and humility come upon us together.
Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty
spirit before a fall.
Pride hath no other glass to show itself but pride.
Pride, ill-nature, and want of sense are the three great sources of ill-manners; without some one of these defects no man will behave himself ill for want of experience, or what, in the language of fools, is called knowing the world.
Pride is a flower that grows in the devil's garden.
Pride is lofty, calm, immovable; vanity is uncertain, capricious, and unjust.
Pride is still aiming at the blest abodes; /
Men would be angels, angels would be gods; / Aspiring to be gods, if angels fell, / Aspiring to be angels, men rebel.
Pride is the source of a thousand virtues; vanity is that of nearly all vices and all perversities.
Pride must suffer pain.
Pride never leaves its master till he gets a fa'.
Pride of origin, whether high or low, springs from the same principle in human nature; one is but the positive, the other the negative, pole of a single weakness.
Pride, the never-failing vice of fools.
Pride will have a fall; for pride goeth before, and shame cometh after.
Pride with pride will not abide.
Pride would never owe, nor self-love ever pay.
Pride's chickens have bonny feathers, but bony bodies.
Priestcraft is no better than witchcraft.
Priesthoods that do not teach, aristocracies that do not govern; the misery of that, and the misery of altering that, are written in Belshazzar fire-letters on the history of France.
Priests pray for enemies, but princes kill.
Prima et maxima peccantium est pœna peccasse
Prima facie
Primo avulso non deficit alter / aureus
Primum mobile
Primus in orbe Deos fecit timor
Primus inter pares
Primus sapientiæ gradus est falsa intelligere
Princes and lords are but the breath of kings, /
"An honest man's the noblest work of God."
Princes and lords may flourish or may fade; / A breath can make them, as a breath has made.
Principes mortales, rempublicam æternam
Principibus placuisse viris non ultima laus est
Principiis obsta; sero medicina paratur, / Cum mala per longas convaluere moras
Principis est virtus maxima nosse suos
Principle is a passion for truth.
Principle is ever my motto, not expediency.
Prisoners of hope.
Pristinæ virtutis memores
Priusquam incipias consulto, et ubi consulueris mature facto opus est
Private affection bereaves us easily of a right judgment.
Private credit is wealth; public honour is security. The feather that adorns the royal bird supports its flight; strip him of his plumage, and you fix him to the earth.
Private judgment with the accent on "private" is self-will; but with the accent on "judgment," it is freedom, free-will.
Private opinion is weak, but public opinion is
almost omnipotent.
Private reproof is the best grave for private faults.
Private self-regard must have been wholly subordinated to, if not entirely cast out by, a higher principle of action and a purer affection before a man can become either truly moral or religious.
Privatorum conventio juri publico non derogat
Privatus illis census erat brevis, / Commune magnum
Privilegium est quasi privata lex
Pro aris et focis
Pro bono publico
Pro Christo et patria
Pro confesso
Pro Deo et rege
Pro et con.
Pro forma
Pro hac vice
Pro libertate patriæ
Pro patria et rege
Pro rata (parte)
Pro re nata
Pro rege et patria
Pro rege, lege, et grege
Pro tanto
Pro tempore
Pro virtute bellica
Pro virtute felix temeritas
Probably imposture is of a sanative, anodyne nature, and man's gullibility not his worst blessing.
Probably men were never born demigods in any
century, but precisely god-devils as we see; certain of whom do become a kind of demigods.
Probatum est
Probitas laudatur, et alget
Probitas verus honos
Probitate et labore
Probity is as rarely in accord with interest as
reason is with passion.
Probum non pœnitet
Procellæ quanto plus habent virium tanto minus temporis
Procrastination is the thief of time.
Procul a Jove, procul a fulmine.
Procul O! procul este, profani
Prodesse quam conspici
Prodigus et stultus donat quæ spernit et odit. / Hæc seges ingratos tulit, et feret omnibus annis
Productions (of a certain artistic quality) are at present possible which are nought
Productions (of a certain artistic quality) are at present possible which are nought 
 
Productions (of a certain artistic quality) are at present possible which are nought  nothing in them, and not bad, because a general form after some good model has of the author.
Profaneness is a brutal vice; he who indulges in it is no gentleman.
Professional critics are incapable of distinguishing
and appreciating either diamonds in the rough state or gold in bars. They are traders, and in literature know only the coins that are current. Their critical laboratory has scales and weights, but neither crucible nor touchstone.
Proffered service stinks
Profligacy consists not in spending years of time or chests of money, but in spending them off the line of your career.
Profound joy has more of severity than gaiety in it.
Progress begins with the minority.
Progress is the law of life--man is not man as
yet.
Progress, man's distinctive mark alone, / Not God's and not the beasts': God is, they are; / Man partly is, and wholly hopes to be.
Progress--the stride of God.
Prohibetur ne quis faciat in suo, quod nocere potest in alieno
Prolonged endurance tames the bold.
Promettre c'est donner, espérer c'est jouir
Promise is most given when the least is said.
Promises make debts, and debts make promises.
Promises may get friends, but it is performance that must nurse and keep them.
Proof of a God? A probable God! The smallest of finites struggling to prove to itself ... and include within itself, the Highest Infinite, in which, by hypothesis, it lives and moves and has its being! Man, reduced to wander about, in stooping posture, with painfully-constructed sulphur-match, and farthing rushlight, or smoky tar-link, searching for the sun.
Prope ad summum, prope ad exitum
Propensity to hope and joy is real riches; one to fear and sorrow, real poverty.
Proper words in proper places make the true
definition of a style.
Properly speaking, the land belongs to these two: to the Almighty God and to all His children of men that have ever worked well on it, or shall ever work well on it.
Properly thou hast no other knowledge but what thou hast got by working.
Property has its duties as well as its rights.
Property, O brother? Of my body I have but a liferent.... But my soul, breathed into me by God, my Me, and what capability is there, I call that mine and not thine. I will keep that, and do what work I can with it; God has given it me; the devil shall not take it away.
Property there is among us valuable to the
auctioneer; but the accumulated manufacturing, commercial, economic skill which lies impalpably warehoused in English hands and heads, what auctioneer can estimate?
Prophecy, not poetry, is the thing wanted in these days. How can we sing and paint when we do not yet believe and see?
Prophete rechts, Prophete links / Das Weltkind in der Mitten
Propositi tenax
Propriæ telluris herum natura, neque illum, / Nec me, nec quemquam statuit. Nos expulit ille: / Illum aut nequities, aut vafri inscitia juris, / Postremo expellet certe vivacior hæres
Propriety of thought and propriety of diction
are commonly found together. Obscurity and affectation are the two greatest faults of style.
Proprio motu
Proprio vigore
Proprium humani ingenii est odisse quem læseris
Proque sua causa quisque disertus erat
Prose, words in their best order; poetry, the
best words in the best order.
Prosperity destroys fools and endangers the wise.
Prosperity doth best discover vice, and adversity doth best discover virtue.
Prosperity is not without many fears and distastes; and adversity is not without comforts and hopes.
Prosperity is the blessing of the Old Testament; adversity is the blessing of the New, which carrieth the greater benediction and the clearer revelation of God's favour.
Prosperity is the touchstone of virtue; for it
is less difficult to bear misfortunes than to remain uncorrupted by pleasure.
Prosperity seems to be scarcely safe, unless it be mixed with a little adversity.
Prosperity tries the fortunate, adversity the great.
Prosperum et felix scelus / Virtus vocatur
Protectio trahit subjectionem, et subjectio protectionem
Protestantism is a revolt against false sovereigns;
the painful but indispensable first preparation for true sovereigns getting place among us.
Proud people are intolerably selfish, and the vain are gentle and giving.
Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.
Proverbs are easily made in cold blood.
Proverbs are mental gems gathered in the diamond-fields of the mind.
Proverbs are short sentences drawn from long
experience.
Proverbs are the abridgments of wisdom.
Proverbs are the daughters of daily experience.
Proverbs are the wisdom of ages.
Proverbs are the wisdom of the streets.
Proverbs cover the whole field of man as he is,
and life as it is, not of either as they ought to be.
Proverbs have been always dear to the true intellectual aristocracy of a nation.
Proverbs have, not a few of them, come down to us from remotest antiquity, borne safely upon the waters of that great stream of time which has swallowed so much beneath its waves.
Proverbs have pleased not one nation only, but many, so that they have made themselves a home in the most different lands.
Proverbs, like the sacred books of each nation, are the sanctuary of the intuitions.
Proverbs please the people, and have pleased
them for ages.
Proverbs possess so vigorous a principle of life, as to have maintained their ground, ever new and ever young, through all the centuries of a nation's existence.
Proverbs were anterior to books, and formed the wisdom of the vulgar, and in the earliest ages were the unwritten laws of morality.
Provide things honest in the sight of all men.
Providence certainly does not favour individuals, but the deep wisdom of its counsels extends to the instruction and ennoblement of all.
Providence conceals itself in the details of human affairs, but becomes unveiled in the generalities of history.
Providence gives the power, of which reason teaches the use.
Providence has a wild, rough, incalculable road to its end; and it is no use to try to whitewash its huge, mixed instrumentalities, to dress up that terrific benefactor in a clean shirt and white neckcloth of a student in divinity.
Providence has decreed that those common acquisitions--money, gems, plate, noble mansions, and dominion--should be sometimes bestowed on the indolent and unworthy; but those things which constitute our true riches, and which are properly our own, must be procured by our own labour.
Providence has given to the French the empire
of the land; to the English, that of the sea; to the Germans, that of--the air.
Providence is but another name for natural law.
Providence is my next-door neighbour.
Providence is not counteracted by any means which Providence puts into our power.
Providence may change, but the promise must stand.
Providence often puts a large potato in a little
pig's way.
Providence provides for the provident.
Provision is the foundation of hospitality, and thrift the fuel of magnificence.
Provocarem ad Philippum, inquit, sed sobrium
Proximorum incuriosi, longinqua sectamur
Proximus a tectis ignis defenditur ægre
Proximus ardet Ucalegon
Proximus sum egomet mihi
Prudence and greatness are ever persuading us to contrary pursuits. The one instructs us to be content with our station, and to find happiness in bounding every wish: the other impels us to superiority, and calls nothing happiness but rapture.
Prudence and love are not made for each other; as the love increases, prudence diminishes.
Prudence is a necessary ingredient in all the
virtues, without which they degenerate into folly and excess.
Prudence is that virtue by which we discern what is proper to be done under the various circumstances of time and place.
Prudence is the virtue of the senses, the science of appearances, the outmost action of the inward life, God taking thought for oxen.
Prudens futuri temporis exitum / Caliginosa nocte premit Deus; / Ridetque, si mortalis ultra / Fas trepidat
Prudens interrogatio quasi dimidium sapientiæ
Prudens qui patiens
Prudens simplicitas
Prudent and active men, who know their strength and use it with limitation and circumspection, alone go far in the affairs of the world.
Prudentia et constantia
Prudentis est mutare consilium; stultus sicut luna mutatur
Prüft das Geschick dich, weiss es wohl warum; /
Es wünschte dich enthaltsam! Folge stumm
Pshaw! what is this little dog-cage of an earth? what art thou that sittest whining there? Thou art still nothing, nobody; true, but who then is something, somebody?
Public affairs ought to progress quickly or slowly, but the people have always too much action or too little. Sometimes with their hundred thousand arms they will overthrow everything, and sometimes with their hundred thousand feet they will crawl along like insects.
Public feeling now is apt to side with the persecuted, and our modern martyr is full as likely to be smothered with roses as with coals.
Public instruction should be the first object of government.
Public opinion is a second conscience.
Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate.
Public opinion is democratic.
Public opinion is the mixed result of the intellect of the community acting upon general feeling.
Publicum bonum privato est præferendum
Publicum meritorum præmium
Pulchre! bene! recte!
Pulvis et umbra sumus, fruges consumere nati
Punctuality is the soul of business.
Punishment follows hard upon crime.
Punishment is justice for the unjust.
Punishment is the last and the worst instrument in the hands of the legislator for the prevention of crime.
Punishment of a miser--to pay the drafts of his heir in his tomb.
Puras Deus non plenas adspicit manus
Purchase the next world with this; thus shalt
thou win both.
Pure enjoyment and true usefulness can only be reciprocal.
Pure love cannot merely do all, but is all.
Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this: To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.
Pure truth, like pure gold, has been found unfit for circulation, because men have discovered that it is far more convenient to adulterate the truth than to refine themselves. They will not advance their minds to the standard, therefore they lower the standard to their minds.
Puridad de dos, puridad de Dios; puridad de
tres, de todos es
Purity and simplicity are the two wings with which man soars above the earth and all temporary nature. Simplicity is in the intention, purity in the affection; simplicity turns to God; purity unites with and enjoys Him.
Purity is the feminine, truth the masculine of honour.
Purity of mind and conduct is the first glory of a woman.
Purpose barred, it follows, / Nothing is done to purpose.
Purpose is what gives life a meaning.
Purposes, like eggs, unless they be hatched into action, will run into rottenness.
Pursuit of knowledge under difficulties.
Pushing any truth out very far, you are met by a counter-truth.
Put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man given to appetite.
Put a stout heart to a stey
Put a tongue / In every wound of Cæsar that should move / The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny.
Put a young healthy soul full of life under the teaching of the Graces, and the soul's body and workmanship will become transparent of the soul's self.
Put armour on thine ears and on thine eyes.
Put money in thy purse.
Put no trust in money; put your money in
trust.
Put not all your crocks on one shelf.
Put not all your eggs in one basket.
Put not forth thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men; for better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen.
Put the saddle on the right horse.
Put your best foot foremost.
Put your foot down where you mean to stand.
Put your hand no farther than your sleeve will reach.
Put your hand quickly to your hat and slowly to your purse, and you'll take no harm.
Put your own shoulder to the wheel.
Put your trust in God, and keep your powder
dry.
Putting out the natural eye of one's mind to see better with a telescope.
Qu'est ce donc que l'aristocratie? L'aristocratie! je vais vous le dire: l'aristocratie, c'est la ligue, la coalition de ceux qui veulent consommer sans produire, vivre sans travailler, occuper toutes les places sans être en état de les remplir, envahir tous les honneurs sans les avoir mérités: voilà l'aristocratie!
Qu'est-ce que le Tiers-Etat. Rien! Que veut-il être? Tout
Qu'est-ce qu'un noble? Un homme qui s'est donné la peine de naître
Qu'heureux est le mortel qui, du monde ignoré, /
Vit content de soi-même en un coin retiré!
Qu'il faut à chaque mois, / Du moins s'enyvre une fois
Qu'on me donne six lignes écrites de la main du plus honnête homme, j'y trouverai de quoi le faire pendre
Qu'on parle bien ou mal du fameux cardinal, / Ma prose ni mes vers n'en diront jamais rien; / Il m'a fait trop de bien pour en dire du mal, / Il m'a fait trop de mal pour en dire du bien
Qu'un joueur est heureux! sa poche est un trésor! / Sous ses heureuses mains le cuivre devient or
Qu'une nuit paraît longue à la douleur qui veille!
Qua vincit victos protegit ille manu
Quackery has no friend like gullibility.
Quadrupedante putrem sonitu quatit ungula
campum
Quæ amissa salva
Quæ e longinquo magis placent
Quæ fuerant vitia mores sunt
Quæ fuit durum pati / Meminisse dulce est
Quæ infra nos nihil ad nos
Quæ lucis miseris tam dira cupido?
Quæ peccamus juvenes ea luimus senes
Quæ regio in terris nostri non plena laboris?
Quæ sint, quæ fuerint, quæ mox ventura trahantur
Quæ supra nos nihil ad nos
Quæ sursum volo videre
Quæ te dementia cepit?
Quæ virtus et quanta, boni, sit vivere parvo!
Quæ volumus et credimus libenter, et quæ sentimus ipsi reliquos sentire putamus
Quæque ipse miserrima vidi et quorum pars
magna fui
Quære verum
Quærenda pecunia primum, / Virtus post nummos
Quærens quem devoret
Quæstio vexata
Quævis terra alit artificem
Qualem commendes etiam atque etiam aspice, ne mox / Incutiant aliena tibi peccata pudorem
Quales sunt summi civitatis viri talis est civitas
Qualis avis, talis cantus; qualis vir, talis oratio
Qualis rex, talis grex
Qualis sit animus, ipse animus nescit
Qualis vita, finis ita
Quality is better than quantity.
Quam continuis et quantis longa senectus / Plena malis!
Quam inique comparatum est, hi qui minus habent / Ut semper aliquid addant divitioribus!
Quam magnum vectigal sit parsimonia!
Quam parva sapientia regatur
Quam prope ad crimen sine crimine!
Quam temere in nosmet legem sancimus iniquam!
Quam veterrimus homini optimus est amicus
Quamvis digressu veteris confusus amici /
Laudo tamen
Quand celui à qui l'on parle ne comprend pas et celui qui parle ne se comprend pas, c'est de la métaphysique
Quand l'aveugle porte la bannière, mal pour ceux qui marchent derrière
Quand le peuple est en mouvement, on ne comprend pas par où le calme peut en y rentrer; et quand il est paisible, on ne voit pas par où le calme peut en sortir
Quand les sauvages de la Louisiane veulent avoir du fruit, ils coupent l'arbre au pied et cueillent le fruit; voilà le gouvernement despotique
Quand les vices nous quittent, nous nous flattons
que c'est nous qui les quittons
Quand on a tout perdu, quand on n'a plus d'espoir, / La vie est une opprobre, et la mort un devoir
Quand on est jeune, on se soigne pour plaire, et quand on est vieille, on se soigne pour ne pas déplaire
Quand on est mort, c'est pour longtemps
Quand on n'a pas ce que l'on aime, / Il faut aimer ce que l'on a
Quand on ne trouve pas son repos en soi-même, il est inutile de le chercher ailleurs
Quand on se fait aimer, on n'est pas inutile
Quand on se fait entendre on parle toujours bien
Quand on voit le style naturel, on est tout étonné et ravi; car on s'attendait de voir un auteur, et on trouve un homme
Quand sur une personne on prétend se régler / C'est par les beaux côtés qu'il lui faut ressembler
Quand tout le monde a tort, tout le monde a raison
Quand une fois j'ai pris ma résolution, je vais
droit à mon but, et je renverse tout de ma soutane rouge
Quand une lecture vous élève l'esprit et qu'elle vous inspire des sentiments nobles et courageux, il est bon, et fait de main d'ouvrier
Quando Dios amanece, para todos amanece
Quando el Español canta, ó rabia, ó no tiene blanca
Quando i furbi vanno in processione, il diabolo porta la croce
Quando non c'è, perde la chiesa
Quando ullum inveniet parem?
Quando vierás tu casa quemar llegate á escalentar
Quandoque bonus dormitat Homerus
Quanta est gula, quæ sibi totos / Ponit apros, animal propter convivia natum
Quanti est sapere!
Quanto la cosa è più perfetta, / Più senta il bene e cosi la doglienza
Quanto piace al mondo è breve sogno
Quanto quisque sibi plura negaverit, / A Dis plura feret
Quantum
Quantum est in rebus inane!
Quantum meruit
Quantum mutatus ab illo
Quantum nobis nostrisque hæc fabula de Christo profuerit notum est
Quantum quisque sua nummorum servat in arca / Tantum habet et fidei
Quantum sufficit
Quarrelling with occasion.
Quarrels would not last long if the fault were only on one side.
Qué es la vida? Un frenesi. / Qué es la vida? Una ilusión. / Una sombra, una ficcion, / Y el mayor bien es pequeño; / Que toda la vida es sueño, / Y los sueños, sueños son!
Que j'aime la hardiesse anglaise! que j'aime les gens qui disent ce qu'ils pensent
Que la Suisse soit libre, et que nos noms périssent!
Que les gens de l'esprit sont bêtes
Que mon nom soit flétri
Que votre âme et vos mœurs peintes dans vos ouvrages
Que vouliez-vous qu'il fit contre trois?--Qu'il mourut!
Quel che fa il pazzo all' ultimo, lo fa il savio
alla prima
Quelqu'éclatante que soit une action, elle ne doit passer pour grande lorsqu'elle n'est pas l'effet d'un grand dessein
Quelque parti que je prenne je sais bien que je serai blâmé
Quelque soin que l'on prenne de couvrir ses passions par des apparences de piété et l'honneur, elles paraissent toujours au travers de ces voiles
Quelques crimes toujours précèdent les grands crimes
Quem di diligunt, adolescens moritur, dum valet, sentit, sapit
Quem Jupiter vult perdere dementat prius
Quem pœnitet peccasse pene est innocens
Quem res plus nimio delectavere secundæ, / Mutatæ quatient
Quem te Deus esse jussit
Quemcunque miserum videris, hominem scias
Questi non hanno speranza di morte
Questioning is not the mode of conversation
among gentlemen.
Quey
Qui a bruit de se lever matin peut dormir jusqu'à diner
Qui a nuce nucleum esse vult, frangat nucem
Qui a vécu un seul jour a vécu un siècle
Qui a vu la cour, a vu du monde, ce qu'il y a
de plus beau, le plus spécieux, et le plus orné; qui méprise la cour après l'avoir vu méprise le monde
Qui aime bien, châtie bien
Qui alterum incusat probri eum ipsum se intueri oportet
Qui aura esté une fois bien fol ne sera nulle autre fois bien sage
Qui bene conjiciet, hunc vatem perhibeto optimum
Qui bene imperat, paruerit aliquando necesse
est
Qui brille au second rang s'éclipse au premier
Qui capit ille facit
Qui commence et ne parfait, sa peine perd
Qui conducit
Qui craindra la mort n'entreprendra rien sur
moi: qui méprisera la vie sera toujours maître de la mienne
Qui craint de souffrir, souffre de crainte
Qui de contemnenda gloria libros scribunt, nomen suum inscribunt
Qui dedit hoc hodie, cras, si volet, auferet
Qui est maître de sa soif est maître de sa santé
Qui est plus esclave qu'un courtisan assidu si
ce n'est un courtisan plus assidu?
Qui facit per alium facit per se
Qui fingit sacros auro vel marmore vultus, / Non facit ille deos: qui rogat, ille facit
Qui fit, Mæcenas, ut nemo, quam sibi sortem / Seu ratio dederit, seu fors objecerit, illa / Contentus vivat; laudet diversa sequentes?
Qui genus jactat suum aliena laudat
Qui homo mature quæsivit pecuniam, / Nisi
eam mature parcit, mature esurit
Qui invidet minor est
Qui jacet in terra non habet unde cadat
Qui jeune n'apprend, vieux ne saura
Qui jure suo utitur, neminem lædit
Qui legitis flores et humi nascentia fragra, /
Frigidus, O pueri fugite hinc, latet anguis in herba
Qui mange du pape, en meurt
Qui medice vivit, misere vivit
Qui mentiri aut fallere insuevit patrem, / Tanto magis is audebit cæteros
Qui mores hominum multorum vidit et urbes
Qui n'a, ne peut
Qui n'a pas l'esprit de son âge / De son âge a tout le malheur
Qui n'a plus qu'un moment à vivre / N'a plus rien à dissimuler
Qui n'a point d'amour n'a pas de beaux jours
Qui n'a point de sens à trente ans n'en aura
jamais
Qui n'a rien, ne craint rien
Qui ne craint point la mort ne craint point les menaces
Qui ne sait obéir, ne sait commander
Qui ne sait pas, trouvera à apprendre
Qui ne sait se borner, ne sut jamais écrire
Qui nescit dissimulare, nescit regnare
Qui nescit dissimulare nescit vivere
Qui nil molitur inepte
Qui nil potest sperare, desperet nihil
Qui nolet fieri desidiosus, amet
Qui non est hodie, cras minus aptus erit
Qui non laborat, non manducet
Qui non moderabitur iræ / Infectum volet esse, dolor quod suaserit et mens
Qui non proficit, deficit
Qui non prohibet quod prohibere potest assentire
videtur
Qui nunc it per iter tenebricosum, / Illuc unde negant redire quenquam
Qui parcit virgæ odit filium
Qui pardonne aisément invite à l'offenser
Qui patitur vincit
Qui peccat ebrius luat sobrius
Qui perd péche
Qui pense
Qui peut ce qui lui plait, commande alors qu'il prie
Qui porte épée porte paix
Qui prête à l'ami perd au double
Qui pro quo
Qui proficit in literis et deficit in moribus, plus deficit quam proficit
Qui quæ vult dicit, quod non vult audiet
Qui recte vivendi prorogat horam / Rusticus expectat dum defluat amnis, at ille / Labitur et labetur in omne volubilis ævum
Qui rit Vendredi, Dimanche pleurera
Qui s'excuse, s'accuse
Qui sait dissimuler, sait régner
Qui sait tout souffrir peut tout oser
Qui se fait brebis, loup le mange
Qui se ressemble, s'assemble
Qui se sent galeux se gratte
Qui se ultro morti offerant, facilius reperiuntur, quam qui dolorem patienter ferant
Qui semel aspexit quantum dimissa petitis / Præstant, mature redeat, repetatque relicta
Qui sert bien son pays n'a pas besoin d'aieux
Qui sibi amicus est, scito hunc amicum omnibus
esse
Qui spe aluntur, pendent, non vivunt
Qui stultis videri eruditi volunt stulti eruditis videntur
Qui tacet consentire videtur
Qui terret plus ipse timet
Qui timide rogat, docet negare
Qui trop embrasse, mal étreint
Qui uti scit, ei bona
Qui veut la fin, veut les moyens
Qui veut manger de noyeau, qu'il casse la noix
Qui veut mourir ou vaincre est vaincu rarement
Qui veut tener nette sa maison, / N'y mette ni femme, ni prêtre, ni pigeon
Qui veut voyager loin ménage sa monture
Qui vit sans folie, n'est pas si sage qu'il croit
Qui vive?
Qui vult decipi, decipiatur
Quick at meat, quick at work
Quick removals are slow prosperings.
Quick resentments are often fatal.
Quick returns make rich merchants.
Quick sensibility is inseparable from a ready understanding.
Quick steps are best over miry ground.
Quick to borrow is always slow to pay.
Quick to learn and wise to know.
Quicken yourself up to duty by the remembrance
of your station, who you are, and what you have obliged yourself to be.
Quicker by taking more time.
Quiconque a beaucoup de témoins de sa mort, meurt toujours avec courage
Quiconque est loup, agisse en loup
Quiconque rougit est déjà coupable; la vraie innocence n'a honte de rien
Quiconque s'imagine la pouvoir mieux écrire,
ne l'entend pas
Quicquid agas, prudenter agas, et respice finem
Quicquid agunt homines, votum, timor, ira, voluptas, / Gaudia, discursus, nostri est farrago libelli
Quicquid excessit modum / Pendet instabili loco
Quicunque turpi fraude semel innotuit, / Etiamsi verum dicit, amittit fidem
Quid æternis minorem / Consiliis animum fatigas?
Quid brevi fortes jaculamur ævo / Multa? quid terras alio calentes / Sole mutamus?
Quid cæco cum speculo?
Quid clarius astris?
Quid crastina volveret ætas / Scire nefas homini
Quid datur a Divis felici optatius hora?
Quid de quoque viro, et cui dicas, sæpe caveto
Quid deceat, quid non obliti
Quid dem? quid non dem? renuis tu quod jubet alter
Quid dignum tanto feret hic promissor hiatu?
Quid domini facient audent quum talia fures?
Quid enim ratione timemus / Aut cupimus?
Quid enim salvis infamia nummis?
Quid est somnus gelidæ nisi mortis imago?
Quid est turpius quam senex vivere incipiens?
Quid faciunt pauci contra tot millia fortes?
Quid furor est census corpore ferre suo!
Quid leges sine moribus / Vanæ proficiunt
Quid me alta silentia cogis / Rumpere
Quid non ebrietas designat? Operta recludit; / Spes jubet esse ratas; in prælia trudit inertem; / Sollicitis animis onus eximit; addocet artes
Quid non mortalia pectora cogis, / Auri sacra
fames?
Quid nos dura refugimus / Ætas? Quid intactum nefasti / Liquimus?
Quid nunc
Quid obseratis auribus fundis preces?
Quid pro quo
Quid prodest, Pontice, longo / Sanguine censeri,
pictosque ostendere vultus / Majorum?
Quid quisque vitet, nunquam homini satis / Cautum est in horas
Quid Romæ faciam? mentiri nescio
Quid si nunc cœlum ruat?
Quid sit futurum cras fuge quærere, et / Quem sors dierum cunque dabit, lucro / Appone
Quid te exempta juvat spinis de pluribus una?
Quid tibi cum pelago? Terra contenta fuisses
Quid tristes querimoniæ / Si non supplicio culpa reciditur?
Quid turpius quam sapientis vitam ex insipientis sermone pendere?
Quid verum atque decens curo et rogo, et omnis in hoc sum
Quid velit et possit rerum concordia discors
Quid vesper ferat, incertum est.
Quidquid erit, superanda omnis fortuna ferendo est
Quidquid id est, timeo Danaos et dona ferentes
Quidquid præcipies, esto brevis, ut cito dicta / Percipiant animi dociles, teneantque fideles / Omne supervacuum pleno de pectore manat
Quien da la suyo antes de morir aparajese a
bien sufrir
Quien larga vida vive mucho mal vide
Quien mas sabe mas calla
Quien no va á carava, no sabe nada
Quien se muda, Dios le ayuda
Quien tiene arte, va por toda parte
Quiet continuity of life is the principle of human happiness.
Quieta non movere
Quietly do the next thing that has to be done, and allow one thing to follow upon the other.
Quietness is best.
Quin corpus onustum / Hesternis vitiis animum
quoque prægravat una, / Atque affigit humo divinæ particulam auræ
Quis desiderio sit pudor aut modus / Tam cari capitis?
Quis enim virtutem amplectitur ipsam, / Præmia si tollas?
Quis fallere possit amantem?
Quis nescit, primam esse historiæ legem, ne quid falsi dicere audeat? Deinde ne quid veri non audeat?
Quis scit an adjiciant hodiernæ crastina summæ
/ Tempora Di superi?
Quis separabit?
Quisnam igitur liber? Sapiens qui sibi imperiosus; / Quem neque pauperies neque mors neque vincula terrent; / Responsare cupidinibus, contemnere honores / Fortis, et in seipso totus teres atque rotundus
Quisque suos patimur Manes
Quit not certainty for hope.
Quit the world, and the world forgets you.
Quit thyself manfully; banish impatience and distrust.
Quixadas sin barbas no merecen ser honradas
Quo animo
Quo fata vocant
Quo jure
Quo jure quaque injuria
Quo mihi fortunam, si non conceditur uti?
Quo res cunque cadent, unum et commune periclum, / Una salus ambobus erit
Quo semel est imbuta recens servabit odorem / Testa diu
Quo teneam vultus mutantem Protea nodo?
Quoad hoc
Quocirca vivite fortes / Fortiaque adversis opponite pectora rebus
Quocunque aspicio, nihil est nisi mortis imago
Quod avertat Deus!
Quod cito fit, cito perit
Quod commune cum alio est, desinit esse proprium
Quod decet honestum est et quod honestum est decet
Quod eorum minimis mihi
Quod erat demonstrandum
Quod erat faciendum
Quod est absurdum
Quod est ante pedes nemo spectat: cœli / Scrutantur plagas
Quod licet Jovi, non licet bovi
Quod medicorum est / Promittunt medici, tractant fabrilia fabri / Scribimus indocti doctique poemata passim
Quod nimis miseri volunt, hoc facile credunt
Quod non opus est, asse carum est
Quod non vetat lex, hoc vetat fieri pudor
Quod nunc ratio est, impetus ante fuit
Quod potui perfeci
Quod satis est cui contingit, nihil amplius optet
Quod scripsi, scripsi
Quod semper, quod ubique, et quod ab omnibus
Quot servi, tot hostes
Quod sis esse velis, nihilque malis: / Summum nec metuas diem, nec optes
Quod sursum volo videre
Quod verum est, meum est
Quod verum tutum
Quod vide
Quondam his vicimus armis
Quot capitum vivunt, totidem studiorum
Quot cœlum stellas, tot habet tua Roma puellas
Quotation confesses inferiority.
Quotation, like much better things, has its
abuses. One may quote till one compiles.
Quotations from profane authors, cold allusions, false pathetic, antitheses and hyperboles, are out of doors.
Quum Romæ fueris, Romano vivite more
Quum talis sis, utinam noster esses!
Racine passera comme le café
Rage avails less than courage.
Rage is for little wrongs; despair is dumb.
Rage is mental imbecility.
Raggio d'asino non arriva al cielo
Rags, which are the reproach of poverty, are the beggar's robes and graceful insignia of his profession, his tenure, his full dress, the suit in which he is expected to show himself in public.
Rail not in answer, but be calm, / For silence
yields a rapid balm; / Live it down!
Railing and praising were his usual themes; / And both, to show his judgment, in extremes; / So over-violent or over-civil, / That every man with him was god or devil.
Raillery is a mode of speaking in favour of one's wit against one's good nature.
Raillery is sometimes more insupportable than wrong; because we have a right to resent injuries, but it is ridiculous to be angry at a jest.
Railway travelling is not travelling at all; it is merely being sent to a place, and very little different from becoming a parcel.
Rainy days will surely come; / Take your
friend's umbrella home.
Raise nae mair deils than ye're able to lay.
Raison d'état
Raison d'être
Raisonner sur l'amour, c'est perdre la raison
Rake not into the bowels of unwelcome truth
to save a halfpenny.
Rami felicia poma ferentes
Rank and riches are chains of gold, but still chains.
Rank is a great beautifier.
Rank is but the guinea's stamp, / The man's the gowd for a' that.
Raphael wäre ein grosser Maler geworden,
selbst wenn er ohne Hände auf die Welt gekommen wäre
Rapiamus, amici, / Occasionem de die
Rapt with zeal, pathetic, bold, and strong, / Roll'd the full tide of eloquence along.
Rara avis in terris, nigroque similima cygno
Rara est adeo concordia formæ / Atque pudicitiæ
Rara fides pietasque viris qui castra sequuntur
Rara temporum felicitate, ubi sentire quæ
velis, et quæ sentias dicere licet
Rare benevolence, the minister of God.
Rari nantes in gurgite vasto
Rari quippe boni; numero vix sunt totidem quot / Thebarum portæ, vel divitis ostia Nili
Rarity imparts a charm; thus early fruits and winter roses are most prized; thus coyness sets off an extravagant mistress, while a door ever open tempts no suitor.
Rarity / Of Christian charity / Under the sun.
Raro antecedentem scelestum / Deseruit pede pœna claudo
Raro sermo illis, et magna libido tacendi
Rarus enim ferme sensus communis in illa / Fortuna
Rascals are always sociable, and the test of a man's nobility is the small pleasure he has in others' society.
Rasch tritt der Tod den Menschen an, / Es ist
ihm keine Frist gegeben, / Es stürzt ihn mitten in der Bahn, / Es reisst ihn fort vom vollen Leben. / Bereitet oder nicht; zu gehen, / Er muss vor seinen Richter stehen
Rashness is the faithful but unhappy parent of misfortune.
Rast' ich, so rost' ich
Rast macht Rost
Rathe Niemand ungebeten
Rathen ist leichter denn helfen
Rathen ist nicht zwingen
Rather an egg to-day than a hen to-morrow.
Rather assume thy right in silence and
than voice it with claims and cha
Rather bear those ills we have / Than fly to others that we know not of.
Rather find what beauty is than anxiously inquire
what it is.
Rather go to bed supperless than rise in debt.
Rather let my head stoop to the block than these knees bow to any save to the God of heaven.
Rather than be less, / Cared not to be at all.
Rather to do nothing than to do good is the lowest state of a degraded mind.
Ratio decidendi
Ratio et auctoritas, duo clarissima mundi lumina
Ratio et consilium propriæ ducis artes
Ratio justifica
Ratio quasi quædam lux lumenque vitæ
Ratio suasoria
Rauch ist alles irdsche Wesen; / Wie des Dampfes Säule weht, / Schwinden alle Erdengrössen, / Nur die Götter bleiben stät
Raum für alle hat die Erde
Raum, ihr Herrn, dem Flügelschlag / Einer freien Seele
Raum ist in der kleinsten Hütte / Für ein glücklich liebend Paar
Ravish'd with the whistling of a name.
Rays must converge to a point in order to glow intensely.
Re infecta
Re ipsa repperi, / Facilitate nihil esse homini melius, neque clementia
Re opitulandum non verbis
Re secunda fortis, dubia fugax
Read Homer once, and you can read no more, / For all books else appear so mean, so poor, / Verse will seem prose; but still persist to read, / And Homer will be all the books you need.
Read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest.
Read my little fable: / He that runs may read. / Most can raise the flowers now, / For all have got the seed.
Read not books alone, but men, and amongst them chiefly thyself; if thou find anything questionable there, use the commentary of a severe friend rather than the gloss of a sweet-lipped flatterer; there is more profit in a distasteful truth than deceitful sweetness.
Read not to contradict and confute, nor to
believe and take for granted, nor to find talk and discourse, but to weigh and consider.
Read nothing that you do not care to remember, and remember nothing you do not mean to use.
Read the book you do honestly feel a wish and curiosity to read.
Reader, attend--whether thy soul / Soars fancy's flights beyond the pole, / Or darkling grubs this earthly hole / In low pursuit; / Know, prudent, cautious self-control / Is wisdom's root.
Reader, if thou an oft-told tale wilt trust, / Thou'lt gladly do and suffer what thou must.
Reading Chaucer is like brushing through the
dewy grass at sunrise.
Reading furnishes us only with the materials of knowledge; it is thinking makes what we read ours.
Reading for the sense
will best bring out the rhythm.
Reading is thinking with another's head instead of one's own.
Reading makes a full man, conference a ready man, and writing an exact man. And therefore if a man write little, he had need have a great memory; if he confer little, have a present wit; and if he read little, have much cunning to seem to know that he doth not.
Reading without purpose is sauntering, not
exercise.
Real action is in silent moments.
Real friends are our greatest joy and our greatest sorrow.
Real happiness is cheap enough, yet how dearly we pay for its counterfeit!
Real knowledge consists not in an acquaintance with facts, which only makes a pedant, but in the use of facts, which makes a philosopher.
Real sorrow is almost as difficult to discover
as real poverty. An instinctive delicacy hides the rays of the one and the wounds of the other.
Real ugliness in either sex means always some kind of hardness of heart or vulgarity of education.
Real worth floats not with people's fancies, no more than a rock in the sea rises and falls with the tide.
Real worth requires no interpreter; its everyday deeds form its blazonry.
Reality, if rightly interpreted, is grander than fiction; nay, it is in the right interpretation of reality and history that poetry consists.
Reality is, no doubt, greater and more vital
to know, in so real a world and life, than any fiction; and the thoughts of God, which the facts are, are infinitely more precious than the fancies of men about them, or even according to them; yet is man's power of fancying, or fantasying, in harmony with the fact, the measure of his knowledge of it and vital relationship to it, and the divinely appointed means withal whereby the fact itself is brought home to our affections.
Reality surpasses imagination; and we see breathing, brightening, and moving before our eyes sights dearer to our hearts than any we ever beheld in the land of dreams.
Reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle.
Reason can never be popular. Passions and feelings may become popular; but reason always remains the sole property of a few eminent individuals.
Reason can no more influence the will and operate as a motive, than the eyes, which show a man his road, can enable him to move from place to place, or than a ship provided with a compass can sail without a wind.
Reason cannot show itself more reasonable
than to cease reasoning on things above reason.
Reason gains all men by compelling none.
Reason has done, what it can do, when it discovers and draws up the law; to execute this law is reserved for him who feels the obligation of it, and has the due firmness of purpose.
Reason has only to do with the becoming, the living; but understanding with the become, the already fixed, that it may make use of it.
Reason! how many eyes hast thou to see evils, and how dim--nay, blind--thou art in preventing them!
Reason is a bee, and exists only on what it
makes; its usefulness takes the place of beauty.
Reason is a historian, but the passions are the actors.
Reason is a very light rider, and easily shook off.
Reason is directed to the process
understanding to the product
The former is nowise concerned about the whither, or the latter about the whence.
Reason is like the sun, of which the light is constant, uniform, and lasting; fancy, a meteor of bright but transitory lustre, irregular in its motion and delusive in its direction.
Reason is progressive; instinct, stationary.
Five thousand years have added no improvement to the hive of the bee nor the house of the beaver.
Reason is the life of the law; nay, the common law itself is nothing else but reason.
Reason
Reason is the test of ridicule, not ridicule the test of truth.
Reason itself is true and just, but the reason of every particular man is weak and wavering.
Reason lies between bridle and spur.
Reason, looking upwards, and carried to the true above, realises a delight in wisdom, unknown to the other parts of our nature.
Reason raise o'er instinct as you can; / In this 'tis God directs, in that 'tis man.
Reason requires culture to expand it. It resembles the fire concealed in the flint, which only shows itself when struck with the steel.
Reason serves when pressed, but honest instinct comes a volunteer.
Reason should direct, and appetite obey.
Reason teaches us to be silent; the heart teaches us to speak.
Reason's a staff for age when Nature's gone; / But youth is strong enough to walk alone.
Reason's glimmering ray / Was lent, not to
assure our doubtful way, / But guide us upward to a better day.
Reason's whole pleasure, all the joys of sense, / Lie in three words,--health, peace, and competence.
Reasonable, or sensible, people are always the best Conversation's Lexicon.
Reasoning against a prejudice is like fighting against a shadow; it exhausts the reasoner, without visibly affecting the prejudice. Argument cannot do the work of instruction any more than blows can take the place of sunlight.
Reasoning banishes reason.
Reasons are the pillars of the fabric of a sermon,
but similitudes are the windows which give the best light.
Rebellentreue ist wankend
Rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God.
Rebuke ought to have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
Rebuke with soft words and hard arguments.
Rebus angustis animosus atque / Fortis appare;
sapienter idem / Contrahes vento nimium secundo / Turgida vela
Rebus in angustis facile est contemnere vitam; / Fortiter ille facit qui miser esse potest
Rebus secundis etiam egregios duces insolescere
Receive what cheer you may; / The night is long that never finds the day.
Receiving a new truth is adding a new sense.
Recepto / Dulce mihi furere est amico
Rechauffé
Recherché
Recht geht vor Macht
Recht stets behält das Schicksal, denn das Herz, / In uns ist sein gebietrischer Vollzieher
Recipiunt feminæ sustentacula a nobis
Reckless youth makes ruefu' age.
Reckon no vice so small that you may commit it, and no virtue so small that you may overlook it.
Reckon what is in a man, not what is on him, if you would know whether he is rich or poor.
Reckoners without their host must reckon
twice.
Recommending secrecy where a dozen of people are acquainted with the circumstance to be concealed, is only putting the truth in masquerade, for the story will be circulated under twenty different shapes.
Recompense injury with justice, and recompense kindness with kindness.
Recompense to no man evil for evil.
Recta actio non erit, nisi recta fuit voluntas, ab hac enim est actio. Rursus, voluntas non erit recta, nisi habitus animi rectus fuerit, ab hoc enim est voluntas
Recte et suaviter
Rectius vives, Licini, neque altum / Semper urgendo, neque, dum procellas / Cautus horrescis, nimium premendo / Littus iniquum
Rectus in curia
Reculer pour mieux sauter
Red as a roost-cock.
Reddere personæ scit convenientia cuique
Reddere qui voces jam scit puer, et pede certo / Signat humum, gestit paribus colludere, et iram / Colligit ac ponit temere, et mutatur in horas
Rede wenig, rede wahr. Zehre wenig, zahle baar
Redeat miseris, abeat fortuna superbis
Reden ist Silber und Schweigen ist Gold
Reden kommt von Natur, Schweigen vom
Verstande
Redeunt Saturnia regna
Redit agricolis labor actus in orbem, / Atque in se sua per vestigia volvitur annus
Redlichkeit gedeiht in jedem Stande
Reductio ad absurdum
Refinement that carries us away from our fellow-men is not God's refinement.
Reflect that life, like every other blessing, derives its value from its use alone.
Reflect upon your present blessings, of which every man has many--not on your past misfortunes, of which all men have some.
Reflection dissolves reverie and burns her delicate wings.
Reform is affirmative, conservatism negative;
conservatism goes for comfort, reform for truth.
Reform is not joyous but grievous; no single man can reform himself without stern suffering and stern working; how much less can a nation of men.
Reform, like charity, must begin at home. Once well at home, how will it radiate outwards, irrepressible, into all that we touch and handle, speak and work; kindling ever new light by incalculable contagion; spreading, in geometric ratio, far and wide; doing good only, wherever it spreads, and not evil.
Reformers

into the arena amid a flourish of drums and trumpets; they must make their debut rather under the badge of the cross, and have been cradled at their birth in a manger; poverty and a humble pedigree is all their inheritance, and their childhood is never touched world.
Reforms are generally most unpopular where most needed.
Refricare cicatricem
Regard not dreams, since they are but the images of our hopes and fears.
Regard not much who is for thee or who against thee; but give all thy care to this, that God be with thee in everything thou doest.
Reges dicuntur multis urgere culullis, / Et torquere mero, quem perspexisse laborent, / An sit amicitia dignus
Regia, crede mihi, res est, succurrere lapsis
Regibus boni quam mali suspectiores sunt,
semperque his aliena virtus formidolosa est
Régime
Regium donum
Regnare nolo, liber ut non sim mihi
Regum æquabat opes animis; seraque revertens / Nocte domum, dapibus mensas onerabat inemptis
Reichen giebt man, Armen nimmt man
Reine d'un jour
Reipublicæ forma laudari facilius quam evenire, et si evenit, haud diuturna esse potest
Reisst den Menschen aus seinen Verhältnissen; und was er dann ist, nur das ist er
Rejecting the miracles of Christ, we still have the miracle of Christ himself.
Rejoice in joyous things--nor overmuch / Let
grief thy bosom touch / Midst evil, and still bear in mind / How changeful are the ways of humankind.
Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes; but know thou that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment.
Rejoice that you have still long to live before the thought comes to you that there is nothing more in the world to see.
Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep.
Relata refero
Relegare bona religionibus
Relever des bagatelles
Relicta non bene parmula
Religentem esse oportet, religiosum nefas
Religion and education are not a match for evil without the grace of God.
Religion and morality, as they now stand,
compose a practical code of misery and servitude.... How would morality, dressed up in stiff stays and finery, start from her own disgusting image, should she look into the mirror of Nature!
Religion bids man prefer the endurance of a lesser evil before a greater, and nature itself does no less.
Religion, blushing, veils her sacred fires, / And unawares morality expires.
Religion cannot change, though we do.
Religion cannot rise above the state of the votary. Heaven always bears some proportion to earth.
Religion contains infinite sadness. If we are
to love God, he must be in distress
Religion des Kreuzes, nur du verknüpfest, in einem / Kranze der Demut und Kraft doppelte Palme zugleich
Religion gives part of its reward in hand, the present comfort of having done our duty; and for the rest, it offers us the best security that heaven can give.
Religion, if in heavenly truths attired, / Needs only to be seen to be admired.
Religion, if it be true, is central truth; and all knowledge which is not gathered round it, and quickened and illuminated by it, is hardly worth the name.
Religion implies revelation.
Religion is a fire which example keeps alive, and which goes out if not communicated.
Religion is a higher and supernatural life, mystical in its roots and practical in its fruits.
Religion is again here, for whoever will piously struggle upward, and sacredly, sorrowfully refuse to speak lies, which indeed will mostly mean refuse to speak at all on that topic.
Religion is an everlasting lodestar, that beams
the brighter in the heavens the darker here on earth grows the night.
Religion is as necessary to reason as reason to religion.
Religion is life, philosophy is thought.... We need both thought and life, and we need that the two shall be in harmony.
Religion is neither a theology nor a theosophy, but a discipline, a law, a yoke, an indissoluble engagement.
Religion is not a dogma nor an emotion, but a service.
Religion is not a doubt, but a certainty,--or
else a mockery and horror.
Religion is not a method, but a life.
Religion is not an end, but a means.
Religion is not in want of art; it rests on its own majesty.
Religion is nothing if it is not everything; if existence is not filled with it.
Religion is the basis of civil society.
Religion is the best armour in the world, but the worst cloak.
Religion is the eldest sister of philosophy; on whatever subjects they may differ, it is unbecoming in either to quarrel, and most so about their inheritance.
Religion is the highest humanity
of man.
Religion is the most gentlemanly thing in the world. It alone will gentilise, if unmixed with cant.
Religion is the only metaphysic that the multitude
can understand and adopt.
Religion is the spice which is meant to keep life from corruption.
Religion is universal, theology is exclusive; religion is humanitarian, theology is sectarian; religion unites mankind, theology divides it; religion is love--broad and all-comprising as God's love, theology preaches love and practises bigotry; religion looks to the moral worth of man, theology to his creed and denomination.
Religion lies more in walk than in talk.
Religion, like its votaries, while it exists on earth, must have a body as well as a soul.
Religion must always be a crab fruit; it cannot
be grafted and keep its wild beauty.
Religion or worship is the attitude of those who see that, against all appearances, the nature of things works for truth and right for ever.
Religion, poetry, is not dead; it will never die. Its dwelling and birthplace is in the soul of man, and it is eternal as the being of man. In any point of space, in any section of time, let there be a living man; and there is an infinitude above him and beneath him, and an eternity encompasses him on this hand and on that; and tones of sphere-music and tidings from loftier worlds will flit round him, if he can but listen, and visit him with holy influences, even in the thickest press of trivialities or the din of busiest life.
Religion presents few difficulties to the humble, many to the proud, innumerable ones to the vain.
Religion primarily means obedience; bending to something or some one. To be bound, or in bonds, as apprentice; to be bound, or in bonds, by military oath; to be bound, or in bonds, as a servant of man; to be bound, or in bonds, under the yoke of God.
Religion reveals the meaning of life, and science
only applies the meaning to the course of circumstances.
Religion should be the rule of life, not a casual incident in it.
Religion without morality is a superstition and a curse; and anything like an adequate and complete morality without religion is impossible.
Religion would frame a just man; Christ would make a whole man. Religion would save a man; Christ would make him worth saving.
Religionen sind Kinder der Unwissenheit, die ihre Mutter nicht lange überleben
Religions are not proved, are not established,
are not overthrown, by logic. They are, of all the mysteries of nature and the human mind, the most mysterious and inexplicable; they are of instinct, and not of reason.
Religious contention is the devil's harvest.
Religious zeal leads to cleanliness, cleanliness to purity, purity to godliness, godliness to humility, humility to the fear of sin.
Rem acu tetigit
Rem, facias rem, / Si possis recte, si non, quocunque modo rem
Rem tu strenuus auge
"Remain content in the station in which Providence has placed you," is on the whole a good maxim, but it is peculiarly for home use. That your neighbour should, or should not, remain content with his position is not your business; but it is very much your business to remain content with your own.
Remark how many are better off than you are; consider how many are worse.
Remember Atlas was weary.
Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth.
Remember, now, when you meet your antagonist, to do everything in a mild agreeable manner. Let your courage be keen, but, at the same time, as polished as your sword.
Remember that all tricks are either knavish or childish.
Remember that the time once yours can never be so again.
Remember that with every breath we draw, an ethereal stream of Lethe runs through our whole being, so that we have but a partial recollection of our joys, and scarcely any of our sorrows.
Remember that you are an actor in a drama
of such sort as the Author chooses. If short, then in a short one; if long, then in a long one. If it be His pleasure that you should act a poor man, see that you act it well; or a cripple, or a ruler, or a private citizen. For this is your business, to act well the given part; but to choose it, belongs to another.
Remember this: that your conscience is not a law--no; God and reason made the law, and has placed conscience within you to determine.
Remember thy prerogative is to govern, and not to serve, the things of this world.
Remember your failures are the seed of your most glorious successes. Despond if you must, but don't despair.
Remembrance and reflection how allied! / What thin partitions sense from thought divide!
Remembrance
from which we cannot be driven.
Remembrance makes the poet; 'tis the past, / Lingering within him with a keener sense / Than is upon the thoughts of common men, / Of what has been, that fills the actual world / With unreal likenesses of lovely shapes, / That were and are not.
Remembrance wakes with all her busy train, / Swells at my breast, and turns the past to pain.
Remis velisque
Remis ventisque
Remorse is as the heart in which it grows: /
If that be gentle, it drops balmy dews / Of true repentance; but if proud and gloomy, / It is the poison tree that, pierced to the inmost, / Weeps only tears of poison.
Remorse is the echo of a lost virtue.
Remorse, the fatal egg by pleasure laid.
Remote from man, with God he passed his days; / Prayer all his business, all his pleasure praise.
Remove not the ancient land-mark.
Remove the cause, and the effect will cease.
Renascentur
Render to all their dues.
Render to Cæsar the things that are Cæsar's, and to God the things that are God's.
Renounce, thou must
is the song which sounds for ever in the ears of every one, which every hour sings to us hoarsely our whole life long.
Renovate animos
Renown is not to be sought, and all pursuit of it is vain. A person may, indeed, by skilful conduct and various artificial means, make a sort of name for himself; but if the inner jewel is wanting, all is vanity, and will not last a day.
Rente viagère
Rentes
Rentier
Repartee is perfect when it effects its purpose
with a double edge. It is the highest order of wit, as it bespeaks the coolest yet quickest exercise of genius, at a moment when the passions are roused.
Repentance clothes in grass and flowers the grave in which the past is laid.
Repentance costs very dear.
Repentance hath a purifying power, and every tear is of a cleansing virtue; but these penitential clouds must be still kept dropping; one shower will not suffice; for repentance is not one single action, but a course.
Repentance is accepted remorse.
Repentance is good, but innocence is better.
Repentance is heart's sorrow, and a clear life ensuing.
Repentance is nothing else but a renunciation of our will, and a controlling of our fancies, which lead us which way they please.
Repentance is the daughter of over-haste.
Repentance is the May of the virtues.
Repentance won't cure mischief.
Repente dives nemo factus est bonus
Reperit Deus nocentem
Reply with wit to gravity, and with gravity to wit.
Réponse sans réplique
Report makes crows blacker than they are.
Repose and cheerfulness are the badge of the gentleman--repose in energy. The Greek battle-pieces are calm; the heroes, in whatever violent actions engaged, retain a serene aspect.
Repose and happiness is what thou covetest, but these are only to be obtained by labour.
Repose is as necessary in conversation as in a picture.
Repose is the cradle of power.
Repose without stagnation is the state most
favourable to happiness. "The great felicity of life," says Seneca, "is to be without perturbation."
Reproof is a medicine like mercury or opium; if it be improperly administered, it will do harm instead of good.
Reproof never does a wise man harm.
Reproof on her lips, but a smile in her eye.
Reprove thy friend privately; commend him publicly.
Republics end with luxury; monarchies, with poverty.
Reputation is an idle and false imposition, oft
got without merit, and lost without deserving; you have lost no reputation at all unless you repute yourself such a loser.
Reputation is commonly measured by the acre.
Reputation is in itself only a farthing candle, of a wavering and uncertain flame, and easily blown out, but it is the light by which the world looks for and finds merit.
Reputation is rarely proportioned to virtue.
Reputation is what men and women think of us. Character is what God and angels know of us.
Reputation, reputation, reputation! O I have
lost my reputation. I have lost the immortal part of myself, and what remains is bestial.
Reputation serves to virtue as light does to a picture.
Requiem æternam dona eis, Domine
Requiescat in pace
Rerum cognitio vera, e rebus ipsis est
Res amicos invenit
Res angusta domi
Res est blanda canor; discant cantare puellæ
Res est ingeniosa dare
Res est sacra miser
Res est solliciti plena timoris amor
Res gestæ
Res in cardine est
Res judicata
Res nolunt diu male administrari
Res rustica
Res severa est verum gaudium
Res sunt humanæ flebile ludibrium
Resembles ocean into tempest wrought, / To waft a feather or to drown a fly.
Resentment gratifies him who intended an injury, and pains him unjustly who did not intend it.
Resentment, indeed, may remain, perhaps
cannot be quite extinguished in the noblest minds; but revenge never will harbour there.
Resentment seems to have been given us by Nature for defence, and for defence only; it is the safeguard of justice and the security of innocence.
Reserve the master-blow.
Resignation is putting God between one's self and one's grief.
Resist as much as thou wilt; heaven's ways are heaven's ways.
Resist not evil.
Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
Resistance ought never to be thought of but when an utter subversion of the laws of the realm threatens the whole frame of our constitution, and no redress can otherwise be hoped for. It therefore does, and ought for ever, to stand in the eye and letter of the law as the highest offence.
Resolution is independent of great age, but without it one lives a hundred years in vain.
Resolution will sometimes relax, and diligence will sometimes be interrupted; but let no accidental surprise or deviation, whether short or long, dispose you to despondency.
Resolutions are well kept when they jump
with inclination.
Resolve, resolve, and to be men aspire. / Exert that noblest privilege, alone / Here to mankind indulged; control desire: / Let godlike Reason, from her sovereign throne, / Speak the commanding word "I will!" and it is done.
Resolved to ruin or to rule the state.
Respect a man, he will do the more.
Respect for one's parents is the highest of the duties of civil life.
Respect for others is the first condition of
"savoir-vivre."
Respect is better procured by exacting than soliciting it.
Respect the burden.
Respect us human, and relieve us poor.
Respect yourself, or no one else will respect you.
Respectable mediocrity offends nobody.
Respice finem
Respicere exemplar vitæ morumque jubebo / Doctum imitatorem, et veras hinc ducere voces
Respondeat superior
Responsibility walks hand in hand with capacity and power.
Rest and be thankful.
Rest and success are fellows.
Rest and undisturbed content have now no place on earth, nor can the greatest affluence of worldly good procure them, ... they are peculiar to the love and fruition of God alone.
Rest is for the dead.
Rest is good after the work is done.
Rest is the sweet sauce of labour.
Rest is won only by work.
Rest not in an ovation, but in a triumph over thy passions.
Rest not upon scattered counsels, for they will rather distract and mislead than settle and direct.
Rest! rest! Shall I not have all eternity to rest in?
Rest thy unrest in England's lawful earth.
Restat iter cœlo: cœlo tentabimus ire; / Da veniam cœpto, Jupiter alte, meo
Restore to God his due in tithe and time: /
A tithe purloined cankers the whole estate.
Restraint and discipline, examples of virtue and of justice, these are what form the education of the world.
Restraint and obstruction
Résumé
Resurgam
Retinens vestigia famæ
Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith the Lord of hosts.
Revelation may not need the help of reason, but man does, even when in possession of revelation. Reason may be described as the candle in the man's hand, to which revelation brings the necessary flame.
Revelation nowhere burns more purely and more beautifully than in the New Testament.
Revenge, at first though sweet, bitter erelong back on itself recoils.
Revenge barketh only at the stars, and spite
spurns at that she cannot reach.
Revenge commonly hurts both the offerer and the sufferer; as we see in a foolish bee, which in her anger envenometh the flesh and loseth her sting, and so lives a drone ever after.
Revenge converts a little right into a great wrong.
Revenge has no limits, for sin has none.
Revenge is a debt, in the paying of which the greatest knave is honest and sincere, and, so far as he is able, punctual.
"Revenge is a kind of wild justice." It is so,
but without this wild austere stock there would be no justice in the world.
Revenge is a kind of wild justice, which, the more man's nature runs to, the more ought law to weed it out.
Revenge is an act of passion; vengeance, of justice.
Revenge is an inheritance of weak souls.
Revenge is barren of itself; itself is the dreadful food it feeds on; its delight is murder, and its satiety despair.
Revenge is the abject pleasure of an abject
mind.
Revenge of a wrong only makes another wrong.
Revenons à nos moutons
Reverence for human worth, earnest devout search for it, and encouragement of it, loyal furtherance and obedience to it, is the outcome and essence of all true religions, and was and ever will be.
Reverence the highest, have patience with the lowest. Let this day's performance of the meanest duty be thy religion. Are the stars too distant, pick up the pebble that lies at thy feet and from it learn the all.
Reverence
into the world along with him, is the one thing on which all depends for making a man in every point a man.
Reverie is the Sunday of thought.
Reverie, which is thought in its nebulous state, borders closely upon the land of sleep, by which it is bordered as by a natural frontier.
Reviewers are usually people who would have been poets, historians, biographers, if they could; they have tried their talents at one or the other, and have failed; therefore they turn critics.
Reviewers, with some rare exceptions, are a most stupid and malignant race. As a bankrupt thief turns thief-taker in despair, so an unsuccessful author turns critic.
Revocate animos, mœstumque timorem / Mittite
Revolutions are like the most noxious dung-heaps, which bring into life the noblest vegetables.
Revolutions are not made, they come. A revolution is as natural a growth as an oak. It comes out of the past. Its foundations are laid far back.
Revolutions never go backward.
Rex datur propter regnum, non regnum propter regem. Potentia non est nisi ad bonum
Rex est major singulis, minor universis
Rex est qui metuit nihil; / Rex est qui cupit nihil
Rex non potest fallere nec falli
Rex non potest peccare
Rex nunquam moritur
Rex regnat, sed non gubernat
Rhetoric is nothing but reason well dressed and argument put in order.
Rhetoric is the art of ruling the minds of men.
Rhetoric is the creature of art, which he who feels least will most excel in; it is the quackery of eloquence, and deals in nostrums, not in cures.
Rhyme that had no inward necessity to be rhymed; it ought to have told us plainly, without any jingle, what it was aiming at.
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
Rich men are indeed rather possessed by their money than possessors.
Rich men without wisdom and learning are but sheep with golden fleeces.
Rich, not gaudy.
Rich the treasure, / Sweet the pleasure; /
Sweet is pleasure after pain.
Rich with the spoils of time.
Richard's himself again!
Richer than rubies, / Dearer than gold, / Woman, true woman, / Glad we behold!
Riches amassed in haste will diminish; but those collected by hand and little by little will multiply.
Riches and favour go before wisdom and art.
Riches are as a stronghold in the imagination of the rich man.
Riches are for spending, and spending for honour and good actions.
 (lo
Riches are like bad servants, whose shoes are made of running leather, and will never tarry long with one master.
Riches are of little avail in many of the calamities
to which mankind are liable.
Riches are often abused, never refused.
Riches breed care, poverty is safe.
Riches bring cares.
Riches come better after poverty than poverty after riches.
Riches do not consist in having more gold and
silver, but in having more in proportion than our neighbours.
Riches do not exhilarate us so much by their possession as they torment us with their loss.
Riches fineless is as poor as winter / To him that ever fears he shall be poor.
Riches for the most part are hurtful to them that possess them.
Riches have made mair men covetous than covetousness has made men rich.
Riches have wings.
Riches profit not in the day of wrath.
Riches take peace from the soul, but rarely, if ever, confer it.
Riches take wings, comforts vanish, hope withers away, but love stays with us. Love is God.
Riches, though they may reward virtues, yet they cannot cause them; he is much more noble who deserves a benefit than he who bestows one.
Richt wrangs nae man.
Richter sollen zwei gleiche Ohren haben
Ride si sapis
Ridentem dicere verum / Quid vetat?
Ridere in stomacho
Rides in the whirlwind and directs the storm.
Ridet argento domus
Ridetur chorda qui semper oberrat eadem
Ridicule has ever been the most powerful enemy of enthusiasm, and properly the only antagonist that can be opposed to it with success.
Ridicule intrinsically is a small faculty; we may say, the smallest of all faculties that other men are at the pains to repay with any esteem. It is directly opposed to thought, to knowledge, properly so called; its nourishment and essence is denial, which hovers on the surface, while knowledge dwells far below.
Ridicule is a weak weapon when levelled at a
strong mind; but common men are cowards, and dread an empty laugh.
Ridicule, while it often checks what is absurd, fully as often smothers that which is noble.
Ridiculous modes, invented by ignorance and adopted by folly.
Ridiculum acri / Fortius ac melius magnas plerumque secat res
Ridiculus æque nullus est, quam quando esurit
Rien de plus éloquent que l'argent comptant
Rien de plus hautain qu'un homme médiocre devenu puissant
Rien n'a qui assez n'a
Rien n'arrive pour rien
Rien n'empêche tant d'être naturel que l'envie de la paraître
Rien n'est beau que le vrai; le vrai seul est
aimable
Rien n'est plus estimable que la civilité; mais rien de plus ridicule, et de plus à charge, que la cérémonie
Rien n'est plus rare que la véritable bonté; ceux même qui croient en avoir n'ont d'ordinaire que de la complaisance ou de la faiblesse
Rien n'est si dangereux qu'un indiscret ami; / Mieux vaudroit un sage ennemi
Rien ne déconcerte plus efficacement les desseins des pervers, que la tranquillité des grands cœurs
Rien ne m'est sûr que la chose incertaine
Rien ne manque à sa gloire; il manquait à la nôtre
Rien ne pèse tant qu'un secret
Rien ne peut arrêter sa vigilante audace. / L'été n'a point de feux, l'hiver n'a point de glace
Rien ne ressemble plus à un honnête homme
qu'un fripon
Rien ne réussit mieux que le succès
Rien ne s'anéantit; non, rien, et la matière, / Comme un fleuve éternel, roule toujours entière
Rien ne s'arrête pour nous
Rien ne sert de courir: il faut partir à point
Rien ne vaut poulain s'il ne rompt son lien
Rien que s'entendre
Right actions for the future are the best apologies for wrong ones in the past.
Right ethics are central, and go from the soul outward. Gift is contrary to the law of the universe.
Right is more beautiful than private affection, and is compatible with universal wisdom.
Right is right, since God is God.
Right wrongs no man.
Righteousness exalteth a nation; but sin is a reproach to any people.
Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way.
Rightly, poetry is organic. We cannot know things by words and writing, but only by taking a central position in the universe and living in its forms.
Rightly to be great / Is not to stir without
great argument, / But greatly to find quarrel in a straw / When honour's at the stake.
Rigour pushed too far is sure to miss its aim, however good; as the bow snaps that is bent too stiffly.
Rinasce più gloriosa
Riñen las comadres y dicense las verdades
Ring out the old, ring in the new, / Ring, happy bells, across the snow!
Ripening love is the stillest; the shady flowers
in this spring, as in the other, shun sunlight.
Rira bien qui rira le dernier
Rire à gorge déployée
Rire dans sa barbe
Rise, Christopher! thou hast found thy King, and turn / Back to the earth, for I have need of thee. / Thou hast sustained the whole world, bearing me, / The Lord of earth and heaven.
Rise up before the hoary head, and honour
the face of the old man.
Rising genius always shoots forth its rays from among clouds and vapours, but these will gradually roll away and disappear as it ascends to its steady and meridian lustre.
Rising to great place is by a winding stair.
Risu inepto res ineptior nulla est
Risum teneatis, amici?
Risus abundat in ore stultorum
Rivalem patienter habe
Rivers are roads which travel, and which carry us whither we wish to go.
Rivers cannot fill the sea, that, drinking, thirsteth still.
Rivers flow with sweet waters; but, having joined the ocean, they become undrinkable.
Rivers need a spring.
Roads are many; authentic finger-posts are few.
Roast meat at three fires; as soon as you've basted one, another's burnin'.
Rob not the poor, because he is poor.
Robbing Peter to pay Paul.
Robespierre à pied et à cheval
Rock of ages, cleft for me, / Let me hide myself in thee.
Rock'd in the cradle of the deep, / I lay me down in peace to sleep.
Rocks whereon greatest men have oftest wreck'd.
Rogner les ailes à quelqu'un
Rogues are always found out in some way.
Whoever is a wolf will act as a wolf; that is the most certain of all things.
Roi fainéant
Roland for an Oliver
Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll! / Ten thousand fleets sweep over thee in vain; / Man marks the earth with ruin,--his control / Stops with the shore.
Roma locuta est; causa finita est
Romæ rus optas, absentem rusticus urbem /
Tollis ad astra levis
Romæ Tibur amem, ventosus, Tibure Romam
Romance and novel paint beauty in colours more charming than Nature, and describe a happiness that man never tastes. How delusive, how destructive are those pictures of consummate bliss!
Romance has been elegantly defined as the offspring of fiction and love.
Romance is the poetry of literature.
Romance is the truth of imagination and boyhood. Homer's horses clear the world at a bound. The child's eye needs no horizon to its prospect.... The palace that grew up in a night merely awakens a wish to live in it. The impossibilities of fifty years are the common-places of five.
Romance, like a ghost, eludes touching; it is
always where you are not, not where you are. The interview or conversation was prose at the time, but is poetry in memory.
Romam cuncta undique atrocia aut pudenda confluunt celebranturque
Rome
Rome n'est plus dans Rome; elle est toute où je suis
Rome was not built in one day.
Root away / The noisome weeds, which without
profit suck / The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
Rore vixit more cicadæ
Roses fall, but the thorns remain.
Roses fair on thorns do grow: / And they tell me even so / Sorrows into virtues grow.
Roses grow among thorns.
Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud; /
Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun.
Rough diamonds may sometimes be mistaken for pebbles.
Round numbers are always false.
Round the world, but never in it.
Rouge et noir
Ruat cœlum, fiat voluntas tua
Rude am I in my speech, / And little blessed with the soft phrase of peace.
Rudis indigestaque moles
Ruh kommt aus Unruh, und wieder Unruh aus Ruh
Ruhe ist die erste Bürgerpflicht
Rühre die Laute nicht, wenn ringums Trommeln
erschallen; / Führen Narren das Wort, schweiget der Weisere still
Ruin is most fatal when it begins from the bottom.
Ruins are mile-stones on the road of time.
Ruins are the broken eggshell of a civilisation which time has hatched and devoured.
Rule, Britannia, Britannia rules the waves; / Britons never shall be slaves.
Rule youth weel and age will rule itsel'.
Rules of society are nothing; one's conscience is the umpire.
Rumour is a pipe / Blown by surmises, jealousies, conjectures; / And of so easy and so plain a stop / That the blunt monster with uncounted heads, / The still-discordant wavering multitude, / Can play upon it.
Run here or there, thou wilt find no rest, but in humble subjection to the government of a superior.
Rus in urbe
Ruse contre ruse
Ruse de guerre
Rust consumes iron, and envy consumes itself.
Rust wastes more than use.
Rustica veritas
Rusticus expectat dum defluat amnis; at ille /
Labitur et labetur in omne volubilis ævum
S'abstenir pour jouir, c'est l'épicurisme de la raison
'S gibt kein schöner Leben als Studentenleben
S'il est vrai, il peut être
S'il fait beau, prends ton manteau; s'il pleut, prends-le si tu veux
S'il y a beaucoup d'art à savoir parler à propos,
il n'y en a pas moins à savoir se taire
S'il y avait un peuple de dieux, il se gouvernerait démocratiquement. Un gouvernement si parfait ne convient pas des hommes
'S ist nichts so schlimm, als man wohl denkt / Wenn man's nur recht erfasst und lenkt
'S wird besser gehen! 's wird besser gehen! / Die Welt ist rund und muss sich drehen
Saat, dich säet der Herr dem grossen Tage der Ernte
Saat, von Gott gesäet, dem Tage der Garben zu reifen
Sabbath-days, quiet islands on the tossing sea of life.
Sabbath profaned, / Whate'er may be gained, / Is sure to be followed by sorrow.
Sabbath well spent / Brings a week of content.
Sacco pieno rizza l'orecchio
Sacred courage indicates that a man loves an idea better than all things in the world; that he is aiming neither at self nor comfort, but will venture all to put in act the invisible thought in his mind.
Sacrifice is the first element of religion, and resolves itself, in theological language, into the love of God.
Sacrifice still exists everywhere, and everywhere the elect of each generation suffers for the salvation of the rest.
Sacrifice, which is the passion of great souls,
has never been the law of societies.
Sacrificed his life to the delineating of life.
Sacrificio dell' intelletto
Sad natures are most tolerant of gaiety.
Sad souls are slain in merry company. / Grief best is pleased with grief's society; / True sorrow then is feelingly sufficed / When with like semblance it is sympathised.
Sad wise valour is the brave complexion /
That leads the van and swallows up the cities.
Sad with the whole of pleasure.
Sadness and gladness succeed each other.
Sae rantingly, sae wantonly, / Sae dauntingly gaed he; / He play'd a spring, and danced it round, / Beneath the gallows-tree.
Säen ist nicht so beschwerlich als ernten
Sæpe decipimur specie recti
Sæpe est etiam sub palliolo sordido sapientia
Sæpe Faunorum voces exauditæ, / Sæpe visæ formæ deorum
Sæpe in conjugiis fit noxia, cum nimia est dos
Sæpe ingenia calamitate intercidunt
Sæpe nihil inimicus homini quam sibi ipse
Sæpe premente Deo, fert Deus alter opem
Sæpe stylum vertas, iterum quæ digna legi sint / Scripturus; neque, te ut miretur turba, labores / Contentus paucis lectoribus
Sæpe summa ingenia in occulto latent
Sæpe tacens vocem verbaque vultus habet
Sæpe via obliqua præstat quam tendere recta
Sæpius ventis agitatur ingens / Pinus, et celsæ graviore casu / Decidunt turres, feriuntque summos / Fulmina montes
Sæva paupertas, et avitus apto cum lare fundus
Sævi inter se conveniunt ursi
Sævis tranquillus in undis
Safe bind, safe find.
Sag' eine Lüge, so hörst du die Wahrheit
Sahest du nie die Schönheit im Augenblicke des Leidens, / Niemals hast du die Schönheit gesehn. / Sahest du die Freude nie in einem schönen Gesichte, / Niemals hast du die Freude gesehn
Said will be a little ahead, but Done should follow at his heel.
Saint cannot, if God will not.
Saints are sad, because they behold sin (even
when they speculate) from the point of view of the conscience, and not of the intellect.
Sal atticum
Sal sapit omnia
Salle-à-manger
Salon
Salt and bread make the cheeks red.
Salt is good, but if the salt have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned? It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dunghill; but men cast it out.
Salt is white and pure; there is something holy in salt.
Salt spilt is never all gathered up.
Saltabat elegantius, quam necesse est probæ
Salus per Christum redemptorem
Salus populi suprema est lex
Salute thyself: see what thy soul doth wear. / Dare to look in thy chest, for 'tis thine own, / And tumble up and down what thou find'st there.
Salva conscientia
Salva dignitate
Salva fide
Salve, magna parens
Salvo jure
Salvo ordine
Salvo pudore
Sameness is the mother of disgust, variety the cure.
Sammle dich zu jeglichem Geschäfte, / Nie zersplittre deine Kräfte
Samson was a strong man, but he could not pay money before he got it.
Sanan llagas, y no malas palabras
Sands form the mountains, moments make the
year.
Sane baro
Sang-froid
Sanno più un savio ed un matto che un savio solo
Sans changer
Sans Dieu rien
Sans façon
Sans le goût, le génie n'est qu'une sublime folie. Ce toucher sûr par qui la lyre ne rend que le son qu'elle doit rendre, est encore plus rare que la faculté qui crée
Sans les femmes les deux extrémités de la vie seroient sans secours, et le milieu sans plaisir
Sans peur et sans reproche
Sans phrase
Sans Souci
Sans tache
Sanctio justa, jubens honesta, et prohibens contraria
Sanctum est vetus omne poema
Sic vos non vobis
Sanctum sanctorum
Sanctus haberi / Justitiæque tenax, factis dictisque mereris? / Agnosco procerem
Sapere aude
Sapere isthac ætate oportet, qui sunt capite candido
Sapiens dominabitur astris
Sapiens nihil facit invitus, nihil dolens, nihil coactus
Sapiens qui prospicit
Sapientem pascere barbam
Sapienti sat
Sapientissimus in septem
Sapientum octavus
Sapping a solemn creed with solemn sneer.
Sarcasm I now see to be, in general, the language of the devil.
Sarcasm poisons reproof.
Sardonicus risus
Sartor resartus
Sat cito si sat bene
Sat pulchra, si sat bona
Satan finds some mischief still / For idle hands to do.
Satan's friendship reaches to the prison door.
Satan himself is now transformed into an angel of light.
Satan now is wiser than of yore, / And tempts by making rich, not making poor.
Satan trembles when he sees / The weakest saint upon his knees.
Satiety comes of riches, and contumaciousness of satiety.
Satire has a power of fascination that no other
written thing possesses.
Satire is a sort of glass wherein beholders do generally discover everybody's face but their own.
Satire should, like a polished razor keen, / Wound with a touch that is scarcely seen.
Satires run faster than panegyrics.
Satis diu vel naturæ vel gloriæ
Satis eloquentiæ, sapientiæ parum
Satis est orare Jovem, quæ donat et aufert; / Det vitam, det opes, æquum mi animum ipse parabo
Satis quod sufficit
Satis superque est
Satis superque me benignitas tua / Ditavit
Satis verborum
Satis vixi; invictus enim morior
Satisfaction consists in freedom from pain, which is the positive element of existence.
Satius est recurrere, quam currere male
Sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Saucius ejurat pugnam gladiator, et idem / Immemor antiqui vulneris arma capit
Säume nicht, dich zu erdreisten, / Wenn die Menge zaudernd schweift; / Alles kann der Edle leisten / Der versteht und rasch ergreift
Sauter du coq à l'âne!
Sauve qui peut
Save a man from his friends, and leave him to struggle with his enemies.
Save a thief from the gallows, and he'll cut your throat.
Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings, / You heavenly guards.
Save something for a sore foot.
Savoir dissimuler est le savoir des rois
Savoir-faire
Savoir-vivre
Savor
shall, / Rede well thyself that other folks can rede, / And truth thee shalt deliver--'tis no drede.
Say little and say well.
Say nay, and take it.
Say no ill of the year till it be past.
Say not always what you know, but always know what you say.
Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me; I will render to the man according to his work.
Say not, / This with that lace will do well; /
But, This with my discretion will be brave.
Say not to-morrow; the tongue's slightest slip / Nemesis watches, ere it pass the lip.
Say not, We will suffer, for that ye must; say rather, We will act, for that ye must not
Say nothing, and none can criticise thee.
Say nothing good of yourself, you will be distrusted; say nothing bad of yourself, you wilt be taken at your word.
Say, O wise man, how thou hast come by such
knowledge? Because I never was ashamed to confess my ignorance and ask others.
"Say well" is good, but "Do well" is better.
Say well or be still.
Say, what is taste, but the internal pow'rs / Active and strong, and feelingly alive / To each fine impulse?
Saying and doing are two different things.
Scald not thy lips with another man's porridge.
Scandal breeds hatred, hatred begets divisions, division makes faction, and faction brings ruin.
Scandal ever improves by opposition.
Scandal is the sport of its authors, the dread of fools, and the contempt of the wise.
Scandal, like the Nile, is fed by innumerable streams, and it is extremely difficult to trace it to its source.
Scandal will not rub out like dirt when it is
dry.
Scandalum magnatum
Scarcely anything is perfectly plain but what is also perfectly common.
Scarcely love's utmost may in heaven be; / To hell it reacheth, so 'tis love at all.
Scarcely one man in a thousand is capable of tasting the happiness of others.
Scarceness is what there is the biggest stock
of in the country.
Scarceness o' victual 'ull keep; there's no need to be hasty wi' the cooking.
Scatter with one hand, gather with two.
Scelere velandum est scelus
Scepticism has never founded empires, established principles, or changed the world's heart. The great doers in history have always been men of faith.
Scepticism is not an end but a beginning, is as
the decay of old ways of believing, the preparation afar off for new, wider, and better.
Scepticism is the attitude assumed by the student in relation to the particulars which society adores; but which he sees to be reverent only in their tendency and spirit.
Scepticism is unbelief in cause and effect.
Scepticism means not intellectual doubt alone, but moral doubt; all sorts of infidelity, insincerity, and spiritual paralysis.
Scepticism, with its innumerable mischiefs, what is it but the sour fruit of a most blessed increase, that of knowledge; a fruit, too, that will not always continue sour.
Scepticism writing about belief may have great
gifts; but it is really
Schadet ein Irrtum wohl? Nicht immer! aber das Irren / Immer schadet's. Wie sehr, sieht man am Ende des Wegs
Schall und Rauch umnebeln Himmels-Gluth
Schäme dich deines Handwerks nicht
Schwärmerei
Scheiden, ach Scheiden, Scheiden thut weh!
Scherze nicht mit Ernst
Schick dich in die Zeit
Schicksal und eigene Schuld
Schlägt die Zeit dir manche Wunde, / Manche
Freude bringt ihr Lauf; / Aber eine sel'ge Stunde / Wiegt ein Jahr von Schmerzen auf
Schlägt dir die Hoffnung fehl, nie fehle dir das Hoffen! / Ein Thor ist zugethan, doch tausend sind dir offen
Schlagt ihn tot den Hund! Er ist Rezensent
Schlechtes sucht mit Gutem Streit
Schliesst eure Herzen sorgfältiger, als eure Thore
Schmerz und Liebe ist des Menschen Teil /
Der dem Weltgeschick nicht feig entwichen, / Zieht er aus dem Busen sich den Pfeil, / Ist er für die Welt und Gott verblichen
Scholars are frequently to be met with who are ignorant of nothing saving their own ignorance.
Scholarship, save by accident, is never the measure of a man's power.
Schön ist der Friede! Ein lieblicher Knabe / Liegt er gelagert am ruhigen Bach.... / Aber der Krieg auch hat seine Ehre, / Der Beweger des Menschensgeschicks
Schön sind die Rosen eurer Jugend; / Allein die Zeit zerstöret sie. / Nur die Talente, nur die Tugend / Veralten nicht und sterben nie
Schöne Blumen stehen nicht lange am Wege
Schönheit bändigt allen Zorn
Schrecklich blicket ein Gott, da wo Sterbliche weinen
Schuim is geen bier
Schweig, oder rede etwas, das ist besser denn Schweigen
Schweigen ist das Heiligthum der Klugheit.
Es birgt nicht bloss Geheimnisse, sondern auch Fehler
Schweigen können zeugt von Kraft, schweigen wollen von Nachsicht, schweigen müssen vom Geist der Zeit
Schwer ist es, aus dem Geschrei erhitzter Parteien die Stimme der Wahrheit zu unterscheiden
Science always goes abreast with the just elevation of the man, keeping step with religion and metaphysics; or, the state of science is an index of our self-knowledge.
Science corrects the old creeds ... and necessitates a faith commensurate with the grander orbits and universal laws which it discloses.
Science deals exclusively with things as they
are in themselves.
Science dissects death.
Science does not know its debt to imagination.
Science falsely so called.
Science must have originated in the feeling of something being wrong.
Science has been seriously retarded by the
study of what is not worth knowing and of what is not knowable.
Science has done much for us; but it is a poor science that would hide from us the great deep sacred infinitude of Nescience, on which all science swims as a mere superficial film.
Science has not solved difficulties, only shifted the points of difficulty.
Science is a first-rate piece of furniture for a man's upper chamber if he has common-sense on the ground-floor. But if a man has not got plenty of good common-sense, the more science he has the worse for his patient.
Science is an ocean. It is as open to the cockboat as the frigate. One man carries across it a freightage of ingots, another may fish there for herrings.
Science is busy with the hither-end of
things, not the thither-end.
Science / Is but an exchange of ignorance for that / Which is another kind of ignorance.
Science is for those who learn, poetry for those who know.
Science is nothing but trained and organised common sense.
Science is teaching man to know and reverence truth, and to believe that only so far as he knows and loves it can he live worthily on earth, and vindicate the dignity of his spirit.
Science is the knowledge of constant things,
not merely of passing events, and is properly less the knowledge of general laws than of existing facts.
Science is the systematic classification of experience.
Science lives only in quiet places, and with odd people, mostly poor.
Science rests on reason and experiment, and can meet an opponent with calmness; (but) a creed is always sensitive.
Science sees signs; Poetry, the thing signified.
Scientia nihil aliud est quam veritatis imago
Scientia popinæ
Scientia quæ est remota a justitia, calliditas
potius quam sapientia est appellanda
Scientific, like spiritual truth, has ever from the beginning been descending from heaven to man.
Scientific truth is marvellous, but moral truth is divine; and whoever breathes its air and walks by its light has found the lost paradise.
Scilicet expectes, ut tradet mater honestos / Atque alios mores, quam quos habet?
Scinditur incertum studia in contraria vulgus
Scio cui credidi
Scio: tu coactus tua voluntate es
Scire facias
Scire potestates herbarum usumque medendi
Scire tuum nihil est, nisi te scire hoc sciat alter
Scire ubi aliquid invenire possis, ea demum
maxima pars eruditionis est
Scire volunt omnes, mercedem solvere nemo
Scire volunt secreta domus, atque inde timeri
Scit genius, natale comes qui temperet astrum
Scoglio immoto contro le onde sta
Scorn no man's love, though of a mean degree; /
Love is a present for a mighty king,--/ Much less make any one thine enemy. As guns destroy, so may a little sling.
Scorn to trample upon a worm or to sneak to be an emperor.
Scorn'd, to be scorn'd by one that I scorn, / Is that a matter to make me fret? / That a calamity hard to be borne?
Scots, wha hae wi' Wallace bled, / Scots, wham Bruce has aften led, / Welcome to your gory bed, / Or to victory! / Now's the day and now's the hour; / See the front o' battle lour; / See approach proud Edward's power, / Chains and slavery.
Scotsmen reckon ay frae an ill hour.
Screw not the chord too sharply lest it snap.
Screw your courage to the sticking-place, / And we'll not fail.
Scribendi recte sapere est et principium et fons
Scribere scientes
Scribimus indocti doctique
Scripture, like Nature, lays down no definitions.
Scruples, temptations, and fears, and cutting perplexities of heart, are frequently the lot of the most excellent persons.
Sculpture and painting have an effect to teach us manners and abolish hurry.
Sculpture is not the mere cutting of the form of anything in stone; it is the cutting of the effect of it. Very often the true form, in the marble, would not be in the least like itself.
Sculpture, the tongue on the balance of expression.
S'échauffer au dépens du bon Dieu
Se a ciascuno l'interno affanno / Si leggesse in fronte scritto, / Quanti mai che invidia fanno / Ci farebbero pietà!
Se il giovane sapesse, se il vecchio potesse, e' non c' è cosa che non si facesse
Se'l sol mi splende, non curo la luna
Se la moglie pecca, non è il marito innocente
Se laisser prendre aux apparences
Se moquer de la philosophie, c'est vraiment philosopher
Se non è vero, è ben trovato
Se retirer dans un fromage de Hollande
Se tu segui tua stella
Sea Islanders; but a real human heart, with
Divine love in it, beats with the same glow under all the patterns of all earth's thousand tribes.
Sea things that be / On the hot sand fainting long, / Revive with the kiss of the sea.
Seamen have a custom when they meet a whale to fling out an empty tub by way of amusement, to divert him from laying violent hands upon the ship.
Search not to find what lies too deeply hid; / Nor to know things whose knowledge is forbid.
Search others for their virtues, and thyself for thy vices.
Searching of thy wound, I have by hard adventure found my own.
Second thoughts, they say, are best.
Secrecy has many advantages, for when you tell a man at once and straightforward the purpose of any object, he fancies there's nothing in it.
Secrecy is best taught by commencing with ourselves.
Secrecy is the chastity of friendship.
Secrecy is the element of all goodness; even virtue, even beauty is mysterious.
Secrecy is the soul of all great designs.
Secrecy of design, when combined with rapidity of execution, like the column that guided Israel in the desert, becomes the guardian pillar of light and fire to our friends, and a cloud of overwhelming and impenetrable darkness to our enemies.
Secret et hardi
Secreta hæc murmura vulgi
Secrete amicos admone, lauda palam
Secrets make a dungeon of the heart and a jailer of its owner.
Secrets travel fast in Paris.
Sects of men are apt to be shut up in sectarian ideas of their own, and to be less open to new general ideas than the main body of men.
Secundis dubiisque rectus
Secundo amne defluit
Secundum artem
Secundum genera
Secundum usum
Security, / Is mortals' chiefest enemy.
Security will produce danger.
Securus judicat orbis terrarum
Sed de me ut sileam
Sed nisi peccassem, quid tu concedere posses? / Materiam veniæ sors tibi nostra dedit
Sed notat hunc omnis domus et vicinia tota, /
Introrsum turpem, speciosum pelle decora
Sed quum res hominum tanta caligine volvi / Adspicerem, lætosque diu florere nocentes, / Vexarique pios: rursus labefacta cadebat / Religio
Sed tu / Ingenio verbis concipe plura meis?
Sed vatem egregium cui non sit publica vena, / Qui nihil expositum soleat deducere, nec qui / Communi feriat carmen triviale moneta, / Hunc qualem nequeo monstrare, et sentio tantum, / Anxietate carens animus facit
See deep enough, and you see musically; the heart of Nature being everywhere music, if you can only reach it.
See how many things there are which a man
cannot do himself; and then it will appear that it was a sparing speech of the ancients to say, "that a friend is another himself;" for that a friend is far more than himself.
See Naples, and then die.
See one promontory, one mountain, one sea, one river, and see all.
See that no man put a stumbling-block, or an occasion to fall, in his brother's way.
See that you come not to woo honour, but to wed it.
See the conquering hero comes! / Sound the
trumpet, beat the drums!
See this last and this hammer (said the poor cobbler); that last and this hammer are the two best friends I have in this world; nobody else will be my friend, because I want a friend.
See thou explain the infinite through the finite, and the unintelligible only through the intelligible, and not inversely.
See to it that each hour's feelings, and thoughts, and actions are pure and true; then will your life be such.
See what a scourge is laid upon your hate, / That Heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.
See, what is good lies by thy side.
Seein's believin', but feelin's the naked truth.
Seeing the root of the matter is found in me.
Seek, and ye shall find.
Seek but provision of bread and wine, / ... Fools to flatter, and raiment fine, / ... And nothing of God shall e'er be thine.
Seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge
the fatherless, plead for the widow.
Seek not thyself without thyself to find.
Seek not to know what must not be reveal'd; / Joys only flow where fate is most conceal'd; / Too busy man would find his sorrows more, / If future fortunes he should know before; / For by that knowledge of his destiny / He would not live at all, but always die.
Seek not to reform every one's dial by your own watch.
Seek one good, one end, so zealously, that nothing else may come into competition or partnership with it.
Seek the good of other men, but be not in bondage to their faces or fancies; for that is but facility or softness, which taketh an honest mind prisoner.
Seek till you find, and you'll not lose your labour.
Seek to be good, but aim not to be great; / A woman's noblest station is retreat.
Seek to make thy course regular, that men may know beforehand what they may expect.
Seek ye the Lord while he may be found, call
ye upon him while he is near.
Seek your salve where you got your sore.
Seekest thou great things? seek them not.
Seeking for a God there, and not here; everywhere outwardly in physical nature, and not inwardly in our own soul, where He alone is to be found by us, begins to get wearisome.
Seeking nothing, he gains all; foregoing self, the universe grows "I."
Seeking the bubble reputation, / Even in the
cannon's mouth.
Seele des Menschen, / Wie gleichst du dem Wasser! / Schicksal des Menschen, / Wie gleichst du dem Wind!
Seelenstärke ohne Seelengrösse bildet die bösartigen Charakters
Seem I not as tender to him / As any mother? / Ay, but such a one / As all day long hath rated at her child, / And vext his day, but blesses him asleep.
Seeming triumph o'er God's saints / Lasts but a little hour.
Seems, madam! nay, it is; I know not
"seems." / 'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother, / Nor customary suits of solemn black. / Nor windy suspiration of forced breath, / No, nor the fruitful river in the eye, / Nor the dejected 'haviour of the visage, / Together with all forms, modes, shows of grief, / That can denote truly; these, indeed, seem, / For they are actions that a man can play: / But I have that within, which passeth show; / These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men.
Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope of a fool than of him.
Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hope of a fool than of him.
Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this fashion is? how giddily he turns about all the hot bloods between fourteen and five-and-thirty.
Segnius homines bona quam mala sentiunt
Segnius irritant animos demissa per aurem, / Quam quæ sunt oculis subjecta fidelibus
Sehr leicht zerstreut der Zufall was er sammelt; / Ein edler Mensch zieht edle Menschen an / Und weiss sie festzuhalten
Sei gefühllos! / Ein leichtbewegtes Herz / Ist ein elend Gut / Auf der wankenden Erde
Sei gut, und lass von dir die Menschen Böses sagen; / Wer eigne Schuld nicht trägt, kann leichter fremde tragen
Sei im Besitze, und du wohnst im Recht, /
Und heilig wird's die Menge dir bewahren
Sei was du sein willst
Sein Glaube ist so gross, dass, wenn er fällt, / Glaubt er: gefallen sei die ganze Welt
Sei hochbeseligt oder leide! / Das Herz bedarf ein zweites Herz. / Geteilte Freud' ist doppelt Freude, / Geteilter Schmerz ist halber Schmerz.
Selbst erfinden ist schön; doch glücklich von andern Gefundnes, / Fröhlich erkannt und geschätzt, nennst du das weniger dein?
Selbst gethan ist halb gethan
Seldom contented, often in the wrong, / Hard to be pleased at all, and never long.
Seldom ever was any knowledge given to keep but to impart; the grace of this rich jewel is lost in concealment.
Seldom he smiles, and smiles in such a sort, / As if he mock'd himself, and scorn'd his spirit, / That could be moved to smile at anything.
Seldom, in the business and transactions of ordinary life, do we find the sympathy we want.
Seldom is a life wholly wrecked but the cause
lies in some internal mal-arrangement, some want less of good fortune than of good guidance.
Self-complacence over the concealed destroys its concealment.
Self-confidence is either a petty pride in our own narrowness or a realisation of our duty and privilege as God's children.
Self-confidence is the first requisite to great undertakings.
Self-deception is one of the most deadly of all dangers.
Self-denial is indispensable to a strong character,
and the loftiest kind thereof comes only of a religious stock.
Self-denial is painful for a moment, but very agreeable in the end.
Self-distrust is the cause of most of our failures. In the assurance of strength there is strength, and they are the weakest, however strong, who have no faith in themselves or their powers.
Self-interest, that leprosy of the age, attacks us from infancy, and we are startled to observe little heads calculate before knowing how to reflect.
Self-knowledge comes from knowing other men.
Self-love exaggerates our faults as well as our
virtues.
Self-love is a balloon inflated with wind, from which storms burst forth when one makes a puncture in it.
Self-love is not so vile a sin / As self-neglecting.
Self-love is the instrument of our preservation.
Self-love may be, and as a fact often is, the first impulse that drives a man to seek to become morally and religiously better.
Self loves itself best.
Self-murder! name it not; our island's shame!
Self-respect, the corner-stone of all virtue.
Self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control, / These three alone lead life to sovereign power. / Yet not for power (power of herself / Would come uncall'd for), but to live by law, / Acting the law we live by without fear; / And, because right is right, to follow right, / Were wisdom in the scorn of consequence.
Self-trust is the essence of heroism.
Self-trust is the first secret of success.
Self-will is so ardent and active that it will break a world to pieces to make a stool to sit on.
Selfishness is that detestable vice which no one will forgive in others, and no one is without in himself.
Selfishness, not love, is the actuating motive of the gallant.
Selig der, den er im Siegesglanze findet
Selig wer sich vor der Welt, / Ohne Hass
verschliesst, / Einen Freund am Busen hält / Und mit dem geniesst
Sell all thou hast, and give it to the poor, and follow me.
Semel insanivimus omnes
Semel malus, semper præsumitur esse malus
Semen est sanguis Christianorum
Semper ad eventum festinat
Semper Augustus
Semper avarus eget; certum voto pete finem
Semper bonus homo tiro
Semper eadem
Semper eris pauper, si pauper es, Æmiliane
Semper fidelis
Semper habet lites alternaque jurgia lectus, / In quo nupta jacet; minimum dormitur in illo
Semper honos, nomenque tuum, laudesque manebunt
Semper idem
Semper inops, quicunque cupit
Semper paratus
Semper tibi pendeat hamus; / Quo minime credas gurgite, piscis erit
Sempre il mal non vien per nuocere
Send a fool to France, and he'll come a fool back.
Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll
return.
Send a wise man on an errand, and say nothing to him.
Send your charity abroad wrapt in blankets.
Send your son to Ayr; if he did weel here, he'll do weel there.
Senilis stultitia, quæ deliratio appellari solet, senum levium est, non omnium
Seniores priores
Sense can support herself handsomely, in most countries, for some eighteenpence a day; but for fantasy planets and solar systems will not suffice.
Sense hides shame.
Sense, shortness, and salt are the ingredients of a good proverb.
Sensibility would be a good portress if she had but one hand; with her right she opens the door to pleasure, but with her left to pain.
Sensitive ears are good signs of health in
girls as in horses.
Sensitiveness is closely allied to egotism; and excessive sensibility is only another name for morbid self-consciousness. The cure for tender sensibilities is to make more of our objects and less of ourselves.
Sensuality is the grave of the soul.
Sentences are like sharp nails, which force truth upon our memory.
Sentiment has a kind of divine alchemy, rendering grief itself the source of tenderest thoughts and far-reaching desires, which the sufferer cherishes as sacred treasures.
Sentiment is intellectualised emotion; emotion precipitated, as it were, in pretty crystals by the fancy.
Sentiment is the ripened fruit of fantasy.
Sentimental literature, concerned with the analysis and description of emotion, headed by the poetry of Byron, is altogether of lower rank than the literature which merely describes what it saw.
Sentimentalism is that state in which a man
speaks deep and true, not because he feels things strongly, but because he perceives that they are beautiful, and touching and fine to say them--things that he fain would feel, and fancies that he does feel.
Senza Cerere e Bacco, Venere e di ghiaccio
Septem convivium, novem convitium
Septem horas dormisse sat est juvenique, senique
Sepulchri / Mitte supervacuos honores
Sequiturque patrem non passibus æquis
Sequor nec inferior
Sera in fundo parsimonia
Serenity, health, and affluence attend the desire of rising by labour.
Seriatim
Series implexa causarum
Serit arbores quæ alteri sæculo prosint
Sermons in stones.
Sero clypeum post vulnera sumo
Sero sapiunt Phryges
Sero sed serio
Sero venientibus ossa
Serpens ni edat serpentem, draco non fiet
Serpentum major concordia; parcit / Cognatis maculis similis fera. Quando leoni / Fortior eripuit vitam leo?
Serum auxilium post prælium
Serus in cœlum redeas diuque / Lætus intersis
populo
Serva jugum
Servabo fidem
Servant of God, well done; well hast thou fought / The better fight.
Servants and houses should be suited to the situation. A gem should not be placed at the feet. The same is to be understood of an able man.
Servata fides cineri
Serve the great; stick at no humiliation; grudge no office thou canst render; be the limb of their body, the breath of their mouth; compromise thy egotism.
Servetur ad imum / Qualis ab incepto processerit, et sibi constet
Service is no inheritance.
Serviet æternum, quia parvo nescit uti
Servility and abjectness of humour is implicitly
involved in the charge of lying.
Serving one's own passions is the greatest slavery.
Servitude seizes on few, but many seize on servitude.
Ses rides sur son front ont gravé ses exploits
Sesquipedalia verba
Set a beggar on horseback and he'll ride to
the devil.
Set a beggar on horseback and he will ride a gallop.
Set a stout heart to a stey
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Set it down to thyself as well to create good precedents as to follow them.
Set not your loaf in till the oven's hot.
Set out so / As all the day thou mayst hold out to go.
Set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth.
Setz' dir Perrücken auf von Millionen Locken, / Setz' deinen Fuss auf ellenhohe Socken, / Du bleibst doch immer, was du bist
Seven cities warred for Homer being dead, / Who living had no roof to shroud his head.
Seven Grecian cities vied for Homer dead, /
Through which the living Homer begged his bread.
Seven hours to law, to soothing slumber seven, ten to the world allot, and all to heaven.
Seven times tried that judgment is / That did never choose amiss.
Severæ Musa tragœdiæ
Severity breedeth fear, but roughness breedeth hate.
Sewing at once a double thread, / A shroud as
well as a shirt.
Sex horas somno, totidem des legibus æquis: / Quatuor orabis, des epulisque duas. / Quod superest ultra, sacris largire Camenis
Sexu fœmina, ingenio vir
Shadow owes its birth to light.
Shadows fall on brightest hours.
Shadows to-night / Have struck more terror
to the soul of Richard / Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers.
Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit, / And look on death itself.
Shakespeare carries us to such a lofty strain of intelligent activity as to suggest a wealth that beggars his own; and we then feel that the splendid works which he has created, and which in other hours we extol as a sort of self-existent poetry, have no stronger hold of real nature than the shadow of a passing traveller on the rock.
Shakespeare does not look at a thing merely, but into it, through it, so that he constructively comprehends it, can take it asunder and put it together again; the thing melts, as it were, into light under his eye, and anew creates itself before him.
Shakespeare is dangerous to young poets; they cannot but reproduce him, while they imagine they are producing themselves.
Shakespeare is no sectarian; to all he deals
with equity and mercy; because he knows all, and his heart is wide enough for all. In his mind the world is a whole; he figures it as Providence governs it; and to him it is not strange that the sun should be caused to shine on the evil and the good, and the rain to fall on the just and the unjust.
Shakespeare is the greatest intellect who, in our recorded world, has left record of himself in the way of literature. I know not such power of vision, such faculty of thought in any other man, such calmness of depth; placid joyous strength; all things imaged in that great soul of his so true and clear, as in a tranquil unfathomable sea. A perfectly level mirror, that is to say withal, a man justly related to all things and men, a good man.
Shakespeare made his Hamlet as a bird weaves its nest.
Shakespeare must have seemed a dull man at times, he was so flashingly brilliant at others.
Shakespeare never permits a spirit to show itself but to men of the highest intellectual power.
Shakespeare says we are creatures that look
before and after; the more surprising that we do not look round a little and see what is passing under our very eyes.
Shakespeare stands alone. His want of erudition was a most happy and productive ignorance; it forced him back upon his own resources, which were exhaustless.
Shakespeare, the finest human figure, as I apprehend, that Nature has hitherto seen fit to make out of our widely-diffused Teutonic clay. I find no human soul so beautiful, these fifteen hundred known years--our supreme modern European man.
Shakespeare, the sage and seer of the human heart.
Shakespeare was forbidden of heaven to have any plans.... Not for him the founding of institutions, the preaching of doctrines, or the repression of abuses. Neither he, nor the sun, did on any morning that they rose together, receive charge from their Maker concerning such things. They were both of them to shine on the evil and good; both to behold unoffendingly all that was upon the earth, to burn unappalled upon the spears of kings, and undisdaining upon the reeds of the river.
Shakespeare

plays on subjects belonging to the preceding because there is no care about centuries in them, but a life which all men recognise for the human life of all time; ... a rogue in the fifteenth century being, at heart, what a rogue is in the nineteenth and was in the twelfth; and an honest or a knightly man being, in like manner, very similar to other such at any other time.
Shall horses run upon the rock? Will one plough there with oxen?
Shall we receive good at the hands of the Lord, and shall we not receive evil?
Shall we repine at a little misplaced charity, when an all-knowing, all-wise Being showers down every day his benefits on the unthankful and undeserving?
Shall workmen just repeat the sin of kings and conquerors? / As the nations cease from battle, shall the classes rouse the fray, / And scatter wanton sorrow for a shilling more a day?
Shallow men believe in luck, believe in circumstances....
Strong men believe in cause and effect.
Shallow streams make most din.
Shallow wits censure everything that is beyond their depth.
"Shalls" and "wills." Never trust a Scotch man or woman who does not come to grief among them.
Shame is a feeling of profanation.
Shame is like the weaver's thread; if it breaks
in the web, it is wholly imperfect.
Shame is worse than death.
Shame may restrain what law does not prohibit.

Shapes that come not at an earthly call / Will not depart when mortal voices bid.
Sharpness cuts slight things best; solid, nothing
cuts through but weight and strength; the same in the use of intellectuals.
She bears a duke's revenues on her back.
She
hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her.
She is a wife who is the soul of her husband.
She is a woman, therefore may be wooed; she is a woman, therefore may be won.
She is a woman who can command herself.
She is not worthy to be loved that hath not
some feeling of her own worthiness.
She lived unknown, and few could know / When Lucy ceased to be; / But she is in her grave, and oh / The difference to me!
She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness.
She looks as if butter would not melt in her mouth.
She loved me for the dangers I had passed, / And I loved her that she did pity them. / This only is the witchcraft I have used.
She never told her love, / But let concealment,
like a worm i' the bud, / Feed on her damask cheek.
She
proportion to the fault the punishment it merits.
She pined in thought, / And with a green and yellow melancholy. / She sat like patience on a monument, / Smiling at grief.
She should be humble who would please, / And she must suffer who can love.
She speaks poniards, and every word stabs: if her breath were as terrible as her terminations, there were no living with her; she would infect to the north star.
She that is ashamed to eat at table eats in
private.
She that is born handsome is born married.
She that rails ye into trembling / Only shows her fine dissembling; / But the fawner to abuse ye, / Thinks ye fools, and so will use ye.
She that takes gifts herself she sells, / And she that gives them does nothing else.
She that will not when she may, / When she will, she shall have nay.
She watches him as a cat would watch a
mouse.
She wept to feel her life so desolate, / And wept still more because the world had made it / So desolate: yet was the world her all; / She loathed it, but she knew it was her all.
She who makes her husband and her children happy, who reclaims the one from vice, and trains up the other to virtue, is a much greater character than ladies described in romance, whose whole occupation is to murder mankind with shafts from their quiver or their eyes.
She's all my fancy painted her; / She's lovely, she's divine.
She's beautiful, and therefore to be woo'd; / She's a woman, and therefore to be won.
Sheathe thy impatience; throw cold water on
thy choler.
Short allowance of victual, and plenty of nothing but Gospel!
Short boughs, long vintage.
Short lived is all rule but the rule of God.
Short-lived wits do wither as they grow.
Short prayers reach heaven.
Short reckonings make long friends.
Short swallow-flights of song, that dip / Their wings in tears and skim away.
Should auld acquaintance be forgot, / And never brought to mind? / Should auld acquaintance be forgot, / And days o' lang syne?
Should envious tongues some malice frame, / To soil and tarnish your good name, / Live it down.
Should not the ruler have regard to the voice
of the people?
Should one suffer what is intolerable?
Show me one wicked man who has written poetry, and I will show you where his poetry is not poetry; or rather, I will show you in his poetry no poetry at all.
Show me the man who would go to heaven alone, and I will show you one who will never be admitted.
Show me the man you honour; I know by that symptom, better than by any other, what kind of man you yourself are. For you show me there what your ideal of manhood is; what kind of man you long inexpressibly to be, and would thank the gods, with your whole soul, for being if you could.
"Show some pity?" "I show it most of all
when I show justice."
Show the dullest clodpole, show the haughtiest featherhead, that a soul higher than himself is actually here; were his knees stiffened into brass, he must down and worship.
Shrine of the mighty! can it be / That this is all remains of thee?
Shrouded in baleful vapours, the genius of Burns was never seen in clear, azure splendour, enlightening the world; but some beams from it did, by fits, pierce through; and tinted those clouds with rainbow and orient colours into a glory and stern grandeur which men silently gazed on with wonder and tears.
Shun drugs and drinks which work the wit abuse: clear minds, clean bodies, need no Sôma juice.
Shut not thy purse-strings always against
painted distress.
Si ad naturam vivas, nunquam eris pauper; si ad opinionem, nunquam dives
Si antiquitatem spectes, est vetustissima; si dignitatem, est honoratissima; si jurisdictionem, est capacissima
Si bene commemini, causæ sunt quinque bibendi: / Hospitis adventus, præsens sitis, atque futura, / Aut vini bonitas, aut quælibet altera causa
Si cadere necesse est, occurrendum discrimini
Si caput dolet omnia, membra languent
Si ce n'est pas là Dieu, c'est du moins son cousin-german
Si ce n'est toi, c'est ton frère
Si claudo cohabites, subclaudicare disces
Si Dieu n'existait pas, il faudrait l'inventer
Si fecisti, nega
Si foret in terris, rideret Democritus
Si fortuna juvat, caveto tolli; / Si fortuna
tonat, caveto mergi
Si fractus illabatur orbis, / Impavidum ferient ruinæ
Si genus humanum, et mortalia temnitis arma; / At sperate Deos memores fandi atque nefandi
Si gravis brevis, si longus levis
Si haces lo que estuviere de tu parte, / Pide al Cielo favor: ha de ayudarte
Si j'avais la main pleine de vérités, je me garderais
bien de l'ouvrir
Si j'avais le malheur d'être né prince
Si je puis
Si jeunesse savait! si vieillesse pouvait!
Si judicas, cognosce; si regnas, jube
Si l'adversité te trouve toujours sur tes
pieds, la prospérité ne te fait pas aller plus vite
Si la vie est misérable, elle est pénible à supporter; si elle est heureuse, il est horrible de la perdre. L'un revient à l'autre
Si leonina pellis non satis est, assuenda vulpina
Si monumentum requiris, circumspice
Si natura negat, facit indignatio versum
Si non errasset, fecerat ille minus
Si nous n'avions point de défauts, nous ne prendrions pas tant de plaisir à en remarquer dans les autres
Si nous ne nous flattions pas nous-mêmes, la flatterie des autres ne nous pourroit nuire
Si parva licet componere magnis
Si possis suaviter, si non quocunque modo
Si qua voles apte nubere, nube pari
Si quid novisti rectius istis, / Candidus imperti; si non, his utere mecum
Si quis
Si, quoties homines peccant, sua fulmina mittat / Jupiter, exiguo tempore inermis erit
Si sit prudentia
Si tibi deficiant medici, medici tibi fiant / Hæc
tria; mens hilaris, requies, moderata diæta
Si tibi vis omnia subjicere, te subjice rationi
Si trovano più ladri que forche
Si veut le roi, si veut la loi
Si vis amari, ama
Si vis me flere, dolendum est / Primum ipsi tibi
Si vis pacem, para bellum
Sic ait, et dicto citius tumida æquora placat
Sic donec
Sic erat in fatis
Sic fac omnia ... tanquam spectet aliquis
Sic itur ad astra
Sic leve, sic parvum est, animum quod laudis avarum / Subruit ac reficit
Sic me servavit Apollo
Sic omnia fatis / In pejus ruere et retro sublapsa referri
Sic præsentibus utaris voluptatibus, ut futuris non noceas
Sic transit gloria mundi
Sic utere tuo ut alienum non lædas
Sic visum Veneri, cui placet impares / Formas,
atque animos sub juga ahenea / Sævo mittere cum joco
Sich mitzutheilen ist Natur; Mitgetheiltes aufnehmen, wie es gegeben wird, ist Bildung
Sich selbst bekämpfen ist der allerschwerste Krieg; / Sich selbst besiegen ist der allerschönste Sieg
Sich selbst hat niemand ausgelernt
Sich über das Höherstehende alles Urtheils zu enthalten, ist eine zu edle Eigenschaft, als das häufig sein könnte
Sickness is catching; Oh, were favour so, /
Yours would I catch, sweet Hernia, ere I go; / My ear would catch your voice, my eye your eye, / My tongue should catch your tongue's sweet melody.
Sicut ante
Sicut columba
Sicut lilium
Sie glauben mit einander zu streiten, / Und fühlen das Unrecht von beiden Seiten
Sie scheinen mir aus einem edeln Haus, / Sie
sehen stolz und zufrieden aus
Sie sind voll Honig die Blumen; / Aber die Biene nur findet die Süssigkeit aus
Sie streiten um ein Ei, und lassen die Henne fliegen
Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more! / Men were deceivers ever; / One foot in sea and one on shore, / To one thing constant never.
Sight before hearsay.
Sight must be reinforced by insight before
souls can be discerned as well as manners, ideas as well as objects, realities and relations as well as appearances and accidental connections.
Silence and discretion are specially becoming in a woman, and to remain quietly at home.
Silence at the proper season is wisdom, and better than any speech.
Silence gives
Silence is a friend that will never betray.
Silence is a solvent that destroys personality,
and gives us leave to be great and universal.
Silence is better than unmeaning words.
Silence is deep as eternity; speech is shallow as time.
Silence is more eloquent than words.
Silence is one of the great arts of conversation.
Silence is the best resolve for him who distrusts
himself.
Silence is the chaste blossom of love.
Silence is the consummate eloquence of sorrow.
Silence is the element in which great things fashion themselves together; that at length they may emerge, full-formed and majestic, into the daylight of life, which they are thenceforth to rule.
Silence is the eternal duty of man. He won't get to any real understanding of what is complex, and what is more than any other pertinent to his interests, without maintaining silence.
Silence is the mother of truth.
Silence is the perfectest herald of joy; I were but little happy, if I could say how much.
Silence is the sanctuary of discretion
It not only conceals secrets but also faults.
Silence is the sleep that nourishes wisdom.
Silence is wisdom, when speaking is folly.
Silence often expresses more powerfully than
speech the verdict and judgment of society.
Silence, silence; and be distant, ye profane, with your jargonings and superficial babblements, when a man has anything to do.
Silent leges inter arma
Silent men, like still waters, are deep and dangerous.
Silver from the living / Is gold in the giving: / Gold from the dying / Is but silver a-flying. / Gold and silver from the dead / Turn too often into lead.
Simel et simul
Simile gaudet simili
Similia similibus curantur
Simpering is but a lay-hypocrisy: / Give it a corner and the clue undoes.
Simple as it seems, it was a great discovery
that the key of knowledge could turn both ways, that it could open, as well as lock, the door of power to the many.
Simple gratitude, untinctured with love, is all the return an ingenuous mind can bestow for former benefits. Love for love is all the reward we expect or desire.
Simplex sigillum veri
Simplicity in character, in manners, in style: in all things the supreme excellence is simplicity.
Simplicity is in the intention, purity in the affection; simplicity turns to God, purity unites with and enjoys him.
Simplicity is Nature's first step, and the last
of art.
Simplicity is, of all things, the hardest to be copied.
Simplicity is the straightforwardness of a soul which refuses to reflect on itself or its deeds. Many are sincere without being simple; they do not wish to be taken for other than they are, but they are always afraid of being taken for what they are not.
Sin every day takes out a patent for some new invention.
Sin has many tools, but a lie is the handle which fits them all.
Sin is like the bee, with honey in its mouth
but a sting in its tail.
Sin is not a monster to be mused on, but an impotence to be got rid of.
Sin is too dull to see beyond himself.
Sin seen from the thought is a diminution or loss; seen from the conscience or will, it is a pravity or bad.
Since every Jack became a gentleman, / There's many a gentle person made a Jack.
Since grief but aggravates thy loss, / Grieve
not for what is past.
Since not only judgments have their awards, but mercies their commissions, snatch not at every favour, nor think thyself passed by if they fall upon thy neighbour.
Since the invention of printing no state can now any longer be formed purely, slowly, and by degrees from itself.
Since time is not a person we can overtake when he is past, let us honour him with mirth and cheerfulness of heart while he is passing.
Since trifles make the sum of human things, / And half our misery from our foibles springs.
Since we have a good loaf, let us not look for
cheesecakes.
Sincere wise speech
corollary, and insignificant outer manifestation of sincere wise thought.
Sincerity, a deep, great, genuine sincerity, is the first characteristic of all men in any way heroic.
Sincerity gives wings to power.
Sincerity is impossible unless it pervades the whole being; and the pretence saps the very foundations of character.
Sincerity is the face of the soul, as dissimulation
is the mask.
Sincerity is the indispensable ground of all conscientiousness, and by consequence of all heartfelt religion.
Sincerity is the way to heaven. To think how to be sincere is the way of man.
Sincerity is true wisdom.
Sincerity makes the least man to be of more value than the most talented hypocrite.
Sine amicitia vitam esse nullam
Sine Cerere et Baccho, friget Venus
Sine cortica natare
Sine cura
Sine die
Sine invidia
Sine ira et studio
Sine nervis
Sine odio
Sine prole
Sine qua non
Sine virtute esse amicitia nullo pacto potest
Singing should enchant.
Singula de nobis anni prædantur euntes
Singula quid referam? nil non mortale tenemus, / Pectoris exceptis ingeniique bonis
Singularity shows something wrong in the
mind.
Sink not in spirit: who aimeth at the sky / Shoots higher much than he that means a tree.
Sink the Bible to the bottom of the ocean, and man's obligations to God would be unchanged. He would have the same path to tread, only his lamp and his guide would be gone; he would have the same voyage to make, only his compass and chart would be overboard.
Sinks to the grave with unperceived decay, / while resignation gently slopes the way.
Sins and debts are aye mair than we think them.
Sint ut sunt, aut non sint
Sir, a well-placed dash makes half the wit of our writers of modern humour.
Sir Fine-face, Sir Fair-hands; but see thou to it / That thine own fineness, Lancelot, some fine day / Undo thee not.
Sir, he hath fed of the dainties that are bred in a book.
Sire, je n'avais pas besoin de cette hypothèse
Sirve a señor, y sabras que es dolor
Siste, viator
Sit in your own place, and no man can make you rise.
Sit mihi quod nunc est, etiam minus; ut mihi vivam / Quod superest ævi, si quid superesse volunt Di
Sit piger ad pœnas princeps, ad præmia velox
Sit sine labe decus
Sit tibi terra levis
Sit tua cura sequi; me duce tutus eris
Sit venia verbis
Sive pium vis hoc, sive hoc muliebre vocari; / Confiteor misero molle cor esse mihi
Six feet of earth make all men equal.
Six hours to sleep allot: to law be six addressed;
/ Pray four: feast two: the Muses claim the rest.

Skilful pilots gain their reputation from storms and tempests.
Skill is stronger than strength.
Skill is the united force of experience, intellect and passion in their operation on manual labour.
Skill to do comes of doing; knowledge comes
by eyes always open, and working hands; and there is no knowledge that is not power.
Sky is the part of creation in which Nature has done more for the sake of pleasing man, more for the sole and evident purpose of talking to him and teaching him, than in any other of her works, and it is just the part in which we least attend to her.
Slackness breeds worms; but the sure traveller, / Though he alight sometimes, still goeth on.
Slander and detraction can have no influence, can make no impression, upon the righteous Judge above. None to thy prejudice, but a sad and fatal one to their own.
Slander expires at a good woman's door.
Slander is a poison which extinguishes charity,
both in the slanderer and the person who listens to it.
Slander lives upon succession; / For ever housed, where it once gets possession.
Slander, / Whose edge is sharper than the sword, whose tongue / Out-venoms all the worms of Nile, whose breath / Rides on the parting winds, and doth belie / All corners of the world.
Slander's mark was ever yet the fair; / ... A crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.
Slanderers do not hurt me, because they do not hit me.
Slave or free is settled in heaven for a man.
Slave to no sect, who takes no private road, / But looks through Nature up to Nature's God.
Slave to silver's but a slave to smoke.
Slavery is a weed that grows on every soil.
Slavery is an inherent inheritance of a large portion of the human race, to whom the more you give of their own free will, the more slaves they will make themselves.
Slaves cannot breathe in England; if their
lungs / Receive our air, that moment they are free; / They touch our country, and their shackles fall.
Sleep after toil, port after stormy seas, / Ease after war, death after life, doth greatly please.
Sleep and death, two twins of winged race, / Of matchless swiftness, but of silent pace.
Sleep, gentle sleep, / Nature's soft nurse, how have I frighted thee, / That thou no more wilt weigh my eyelids down, / And steep my senses in forgetfulness?
Sleep hath its own world, / A boundary between the things misnamed / Death and Existence.
Sleep is for the inhabitants of planets only; in
another time men will sleep and wake continually at once. The great part of our body, of our humanity, yet sleeps a deep sleep.
Sleep is the best cure for waking troubles.
Sleep is the sole reviver
Sleep is to a man what winding up is to a clock.
Sleep lingers all our lifetime about our eyes, as night hovers all day in the boughs of the fir-tree.
Sleep no more, / Macbeth does murder sleep.
Sleep seldom visits sorrow; when it doth, / It is a comforter.
Sleep, that knits up the ravell'd sleave of care, / The death of each day's life, sore labour's bath, / Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course, / Chief nourisher in life's feast.
Sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye.
Sleep, the antechamber of the grave.
Sleep the sleep that knows not breaking, / Morn of toil, nor night of waking.
Slight not the smallest loss, whether it be / In love or honour; take account of all: / Shine like the sun in every corner: see / Whether thy stock of credit swell or fall.
Slippery is the flagstone at the great house door.
Sloth is the key to poverty.
Sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labour wears, while the used key is always bright.
Sloth makes all things difficult, but industry all things easy.
Sloth never arrived at the attainment of a good wish.
Sloth turneth the edge of wit, study sharpeneth the mind; a thing, be it never so easy, is hard to the idle; a thing, be it never so hard, is easy to wit well employed.
Slovenly (a) and negligent manner of writing
is a disobliging mark of want of respect.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Slow fire makes sweet malt.
Slow-footed counsel is most sure to gain; / Rashness still brings repentance in her train.
Slow help is no help.
Slow rises worth by poverty depress'd.
Slow to resolve, but in performance quick.
Slowly and sadly we laid him down, / From the field of his fame fresh and gory: / We carved not a line, and we raised not a stone, / But we left him alone with his glory.
Sma' fish are better than nane.
Small cheer and great welcome make a merry feast.
Small curs are not regarded when they grin; /
But great men tremble when the lion roars.
Small curses upon great occasions are but so much waste of our strength and soul's health to no manner of purpose; they are like sparrow-shot fired against a bastion.
Small debts are like small shot--they are rattling on every side, and can scarcely be escaped without a wound. Great debts are like cannon of loud noise, but of little danger.
Small draughts of philosophy lead to atheism, but larger bring back to God.
Small faults indulged let in greater.
Small have continued plodders ever won / Save
bare authority from others' books.
Small herbs have grace, great weeds do grow apace.
Small is it that thou canst trample the earth with its injuries under thy foot, as old Greek Zeno trained thee: thou canst love the earth while it injures thee, and even because it injures thee; for this a Greater than Zeno was needed, and he too was sent.
Small Latin and less Greek.
Small-pot-soon-hot style of eloquence is what our county conventions often exhibit.
Small profits and quick returns.
Small rain lays great dust.
Small service is true service while it lasts. / Of humblest friends, bright creature! scorn not one: / The daisy, by the shadow that it casts, / Protects the lingering dewdrop from the sun.
Small thanks to the man for keeping his hands clean who would not touch the work but with gloves on.
Smallest of mortals, when mounted aloft by circumstances, come to seem great, smallest of phenomena connected with them are treated as important, and must be sedulously scanned, and commented on with loud emphasis.
Smelfungus in the grand portico of the Pantheon
says, "'Tis nothing but a huge cockpit."
Smile (Fortune), and we smile, the lords of many lands; / Frown, and we smile, the lords of our own hands; / For man is man and master of his fate.
Smiles are the language of love.
Smiles form the channel of a future tear.
Smiles from reason flow, / To brute denied, and are of love the food.
Smooth runs the water where the brook is
deep; / And in his simple show he harbours treason. / The fox barks not when he would steal the lamb.
Smooth waters run deep.
Smooth words make smooth ways.
Smuler ere og Bröd
Snarl if you please, but you shall snarl without.
Snatch from the ashes of your sires / The
embers of their former fires; / And he who in the strife expires / Will add to theirs a name of fear / That tyranny shall quake to hear, / And leave his sons a hope, a fame, / They too would rather die than shame.
So behave that the odour of your actions may enhance the general sweetness of the atmosphere.
So careful of the type she seems, / So careless of the single life.
So comes a reckoning when the banquet's o'er,--/ The dreadful reckoning, and men smile no more.
So dawning day has brought relief--/ Fareweel our night o' sorrow.
So dress and so conduct yourself that persons
who have been in your company will not recollect what you had on.
So far as a man thinks he is free.
So far is it from being true that men are naturally equal, that no two people can be half an hour together but one shall acquire an evident superiority over the other.
So full of shapes is fancy, that it alone is high-fantastical.
So gieb mir auch die Zeiten wieder, / Da ich noch selbst im Werden war
So, here hath been dawning / Another blue day; / Think wilt thou let it / Slip useless away. / Out of Eternity / This new day is born; / Into Eternity / At night doth return. / Behold it aforetime / No eye ever did: / So soon it for ever / From all eyes is hid. / Here hath been dawning, &c.
So I do my part to others, let them think of me what they will or can.... If I should regard such things, it were in another's power to defeat my charity, and evil should be stronger than good. But difficulties are so far from cooling Christians that they whet them.
So lang man lebt, sei man lebendig
So live with men, as if God saw you; so speak to God, as if men heard you.
So lonely 'twas, that God himself / Scarce seeméd there to be.
So long as a man is capable of self-renewal he is a living being.
So long as any Ideal (any soul of truth) does, in never so confused a manner, exist and work within the Actual, it is a tolerable business. Not so when the Ideal has wholly departed, and the Actual owns to no soul of truth any longer.
So long as the "Holy Place" in their souls
is left in possession of powerless opinions, men are practically without God in this world.
So long as you live and work, you will not escape being misunderstood; to that you must resign yourself once for all. Be silent.
So magnificent a thing is Will incarnated in a creature of like fashion with ourselves, that we run to witness all manifestations thereof.
So many servants, so many enemies.
So many slaves, so many enemies.
So may he rest; his faults lie gently on him.
So much in the world depends upon getting what we want. Prosperity is to the human heart like a sunny south wall to a peach.
So much of our time is preparation, so much is routine, and so much retrospect, that the pith of each man's genius contracts itself to a very few hours.
So much to do, / So little done, such things to be.
So nigh is grandeur to our dust, / So near is God to man, / When Duty whispers low, "Thou must," / The youth replies, "I can!"
So schaff' ich am sausenden Webstuhl der
Zeit / Und wirke der Gottheit lebendiges Kleid
So soon as one's heart is tender it is weak. When it is beating so warmly against the breast, and the throat is, as it were, tied tightly, and one strives to press the tears from one's eyes and feels an incomprehensible joy as they begin to flow, then we are so weak that we are fettered by chains of flowers, not because they have become strong through any magic chain, but because we tremble lest we should tear them asunder.
So soon as people try honestly to see all they can of anything, they come to a point where a noble dimness begins. They see more than others; but the consequence of their seeing more is, that they feel they cannot see at all; and the more intense their perception, the more the crowd of things which they partly see will multiply upon them.
So soon as sacrifice becomes a duty and necessity to man, I see no limit to the horizon which opens before him.
So spiritual
that we do springs out of mystery, spirit, invisible force; only like a little cloud-image, or Armida's palace, air-built, does the actual body itself forth from the great mystic deep.
So stirbt ein Held, anbetungsvoll
So study evermore is overshot; / While it doth study to have what it would, / It doth forget to do the thing it should; / And when it hath the thing it hunteth most, / 'Tis won as towns with fire,--so won, so lost.
So sweetly she bade me adieu, / I thought that she bade me return.
So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.
So thou be above it, make the world serve thy purpose, but do not thou serve it.
So thou be good, slander doth but approve /
Thy worth the greater.
So to living or dead let the solemn bell call; / Sleeping or waking, time passes with all.
So turns the faithful needle to the pole, / Though mountains rise between and oceans roll.
So we grew together, / Like to a double cherry, seeming parted, / But yet a union in partition; / Two lovely berries moulded on one stem. / So with two seeming bodies, but one heart.
So wise, so young, they say, do ne'er live long.
So wonderful is human nature, and its varied
ties / Are so involved and complicate, that none / May hope to keep his inward spirit pure, / And walk without perplexity through life.
So work the honey bees; / Creatures that, by a rule in Nature, teach / The art of order to a peopled kingdom.
Soar not too high to fall, but stoop to rise.
Sobald du dir vertraust, sobald weisst du zu leben
Sobriety, severity, and self-respect is the foundation of all true sociality.
Social intercourse makes us the more able to bear with ourselves and others.
Social order without liberty makes of man only a product; liberty makes him the citizen of a better world.
Societatis vinculum est ratio et oratio
Society always consists, in greatest part, of
young and foolish persons.
Society cannot do without cultivated men. As soon as the first wants are satisfied, the higher wants become imperative.
Society develops wit, but contemplation alone forms genius.
Society does not in any age prevent a man from being what he can be.
Society does not like to have any breath of question blown on the existing order.
Society does not love its unmaskers.
Society everywhere is in conspiracy against the manhood of every one of its members.
Society has always a destructive influence upon an artist:--by its sympathy with his meanest powers; secondly, by its chilling want of understanding of his greatest; and, thirdly, by its vain occupation of his time and thoughts.
Society has always under one or the other figure two authentic revelations, of a God and of a devil.
Society has only one law, and that is custom.
Society is a long series of uprising ridges,
which from the first to the last offer no valley of repose. Wherever you take your stand, you are looked down upon by those above you, and reviled and pelted by those below you.
Society is a masked ball, where every one hides his real character, and reveals it by hiding.
Society is a republic. When an individual endeavours to lift himself above his fellows, he is dragged down by the mass, either by ridicule or calumny.
Society is a troop of thinkers, and the best heads among them take the best places.
Society is a wave. The wave moves onward, but the water of which it is composed does not.... Its unity is only phenomenal.
Society is, and must be, based upon appearances,
and not upon the deepest realities.
Society is barbarous, until every industrious man can get his living without dishonest customs.
Society is composed of two great classes: those who have more dinners than appetite, and those who have more appetite than dinners.
Society is divisible into two classes: shearers and shorn.
Society is ever under the imperious necessity of moving onward in legal forms, nor can such forms be evaded without the most serious disasters forthwith ensuing.
Society is founded upon cloth.
Society is full of infirm people, who incessantly summon others to serve them. They contrive everywhere to exhaust for their single comfort the entire means and appliances of that luxury to which our invention has yet attained.
Society is infected with rude, cynical, restless, and frivolous persons, who prey upon the rest, and whom no public opinion concentrated into good manners, forms accepted by the sense of all, can reach.
Society is like the echoing hills; it gives back to the speaker his words, groan for groan, song for song.
Society is no comfort to one not sociable.
Society is servile from want of will, and therefore
the world wants saviours and religions.
Society is the atmosphere of souls, and we necessarily imbibe from it something which is either infectious or hurtful.
Society is the grandmother of humanity through her daughters the inventions.
Society is the standing wonder of our existence; a true region of the supernatural; as it were, a second all-embracing life, wherein our first individual life becomes doubly and trebly alive, and whatever of infinitude was in us bodes itself forth, and becomes visible and active.
Society is well governed when the people obey the magistrates, and the magistrates the laws.
Society lives by faith, and develops by science.
Society rests upon conscience, not upon science.
Society will pardon much to genius and special gifts; but, being in its nature conventional, it loves what is conventional.
Society wishes to be amused. I do not wish to be amused. I wish that life should not be cheap, but sacred; the days to be as centuries, loaded, fragrant.
Socius fidelis anchora tuta est
Socrates quidem quum rogaretur cujatem se
esse diceret, Mundanum, inquit. Totius enim mundi se incolam et civem arbitrabatur
Soft-heartedness, in times like these, / Shows softness in the upper storey.
Soft is the music that would charm for ever; / The flower of sweetest smell is shy and lowly.
Soft
Soft pity enters at an iron gate.
Soft words win hard hearts.
"Softly! softly!" caught the monkey.
Sogno d'infermi
Soi-disant
Sol crescentes decedens duplicat umbras
Sol occubuit; nox nulla secuta est
Sola Deo salus
Sola juvat virtus
Sola nobilitas virtus
Sola salus servire Deo
Sola virtus invicta
Solamen miseris socios habuisse doloris
Soldats! si les cornettes vous manquent, vous trouverez toujours mon panache blanc au chemin de l'honneur et de la gloire
Soldiers in peace are like chimneys in summer.
Soldiers
as of the sword.
Soldiers! what I have to offer you is fatigue, danger, struggle, and death; the chill of the cold night in the free air, and heat under the burning sun; no lodgings, no munitions, no provisions, but forced marches, dangerous watchposts, and the continual struggle with the bayonet against batteries. Those who love freedom and their country may follow me!
"Solem præ jaculorum multitudine et sagittarum non videbis." "In umbra igitur pugnabimus"
Solem quis dicere falsum audeat?
Soli Deo gloria
Soli Deo honor et gloria

Solicitude about the future never profits; we feel no evil till it comes; and when we feel always too early or too late.
Solid pudding against empty praise.
Solitude can be well applied and sit right upon but very few persons. They must have knowledge of the world to see the follies of it, and virtue enough to despise all the vanity.
Solitude cherishes great virtues and destroys little ones.
Solitude dulls the thought, too much company
dissipates it.
Solitude is a good school, but the world is the best theatre; the institution is best there, but the practice here; the wilderness hath the advantage of discipline, and society opportunities of perfection.
Solitude is as needful to the imagination as society is wholesome for the character.
Solitude is impracticable, and society fatal.
Solitude is not measured by the miles of space that intervene between a man and his fellows. The really diligent student in one of the crowded hives of Cambridge College is as solitary as a dervish in the desert.
Solitude is often the best society.
Solitude is the despair of fools, the torment of the wicked, and the joy of the good.
Solitude is the home of the strong; silence, their prayer.
Solitude sometimes is best society, / And short retirement urges sweet return.
Solitude, the safeguard of mediocrity, is to genius the stern friend, the cold, obscure shelter where moult the wings that will bear it farther than suns and stars. He who would inspire and lead his race must be defended from travelling with the souls of other men, from living, breathing, reading, and writing in the daily time-worn yoke of their opinions.
Solitudinem faciunt, pacem appellant
Sollen dich die Dohlen nicht umschrein, / Musst du nicht Knopf auf dem Kirchthurm sein
Sollicitæ mentes speque metuque pavent
Sollicitant alii remis freta cæca, ruuntque / In ferrum: penetrant aulas, et limina regum
Solo cedit, quicquid solo plantatur
Solo Deo salus
Solo e pensoso
Solvit ad diem
Solvitur ambulando
Solvuntur risu tabulæ
Some are atheists only in fair weather.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.
Some are cursed with the fulness of satiety; and how can they bear the ills of life when its very pleasures fatigue them?
Some are so intent upon acquiring the superfluities of life that they sacrifice its necessaries in this foolish pursuit.
Some books are drenched sands, on which a
great soul's wealth lies in heaps, like a wrecked argosy.
Some books are edifices to stand as they are built; some are hewn stones ready to form a part of future edifices; some are quarries from which stones are to be split for shaping and after use.
Some books are lees frae end to end, / And some big lees were never penn'd; / E'en ministers they hae been kenn'd, / In holy rapture, / A rousing whid at times to vend, / And nail't wi' Scripture.
Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested.
Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
Some dire misfortune to portend, / No enemy can match a friend.
Some drink because they're wet, and some
because they're dry.
Some evils are cured by contempt.
Some falls are means the happier to rise.
Some faults are so nearly allied to excellence that we can scarce weed out the vice without eradicating the virtue.
Some folk's tongues are like the clocks as run on strikin', not to tell you the time o' the day, but because there's summat wrong i' their inside.
Some for renown, on scraps of learning dote, /
And think they grow immortal as they quote.
Some friend is a companion at the table, and will not continue in the day of thy affliction.
Some glances of real beauty may be seen in the faces of those who dwell in true meekness.
Some grief shows much of love, / But much of grief shows still more want of wit.
Some hae meat that canna eat, / And some would eat that want it; / But we hae meat and we can eat, / Sae let the Lord be thankit.
Some have been thought brave because they
were afraid to run away.
Some men are born anvils, some are born hammers.
Some men are like nails, easily drawn; others are like rivets, not drawable at all.
Some men are wise, and some are otherwise.
Some men, at the approach of a dispute, neigh like horses. Unless there be an argument going on, they think nothing is doing.
Some men demand rough treatment everywhere.
Some men go through a forest and see no firewood.
Some men have just imagination enough to spoil their judgment.
Some men, like spaniels, will only fawn the more when repulsed, but will pay little heed to a friendly caress.
Some men weave their sophistry till their own reason is entangled.
Some men will believe nothing but what they
can comprehend; and there are but few things that such are able to comprehend.
Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before to judgement; and some men they follow after.
Some modern zealots appear to have no better knowledge of truth, nor better manner of judging it, than by counting noses.
Some must be great.
Some of our weaknesses are born in us, others are the result of education; it is a question which of the two gives us most trouble.
Some of the most famous books are least
worth reading. Their fame was due to their doing something that needed in their day to be done. The work done, the virtue of the book expires.
Some of your griefs you have cured, / And the sharpest you still have survived; / But what torments of pain you endured / From evils that never arrived!
Some old men, by continually praising the time of their youth, would almost persuade us that there were no fools in those days; but unluckily they are left themselves for examples.
Some people are all quality; you would think they were made up of nothing but title and genealogy. The stamp of dignity defaces in them the very character of humanity, and transports them to such a degree of haughtiness that they reckon it below themselves to exercise either good-nature or good manners.
Some people are so fond of ill-luck that they run half way to meet it.
Some people carry their hearts in their heads;
very many carry their heads in their hearts. The difficulty is to keep them apart, yet both actively working together.
Some people obtain fame, and others deserve it.
Some people pass through life soberly and religiously enough, without knowing why, or reasoning about it, but, from force of habit merely, go to heaven like fools.
Some people will never learn anything, because they understand everything too soon.
Some persons are so devotional they have not one bit of true religion in them.
Some persons, instead of making a religion for
their God, are content to make a god of their religion.
Some persons take reproof good-humouredly enough, unless you are so unlucky as to hit a sore place. Then they wince and writhe, and start up and knock you down for your impertinence, or wish you good morning.
Some philosophers seek to exalt man by display of his greatness, others to debase him by pointing to his miseries.
Some prayers, indeed, have a longer voyage than others, but then they return with richer lading at last.
Some read books only with a view to find fault, while others read only to be taught; the former are like venomous spiders, extracting a poisonous quality, where the latter, like the bees, sip out a sweet and profitable juice.
Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall; /
Some run from brakes of vice and answer none, / And some condemnéd for a fault alone.
Some slaves are scourged to their work by whips, others by restlessness and ambition.
Some straw, a room, water, and in the fourth place, gentle words. These things are never to be refused in good men's houses.
Some talkers excel in the precision with which they formulate their thoughts, so that you get from them somewhat to remember; others lay criticism asleep by a charm.
Some tears belong to us because we are unfortunate; others, because we are humane; many, because we are mortal. But most are caused by our being unwise. It is these last only that of necessity produce more.
Some that speak no ill of any do no good to
any.
Some there be that shadows kiss, / Such have but a shadow's bliss.
Some to whom Heaven in wit has been profuse, / Want as much more to turn it to its use.
Some treasures are heavy with human tears, as an ill-stored harvest with untimely rain; and some gold is brighter in sunshine than in substance.
Some troops pursue the bloody-minded queen / That led calm Henry.
Some village Hampden, that with dauntless
breast / The little tyrant of his fields withstood, / Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest, / Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood.
Some virtues are only seen in affliction, and some in prosperity.
Some wee short hours ayont the twal.
Some work in the morning may trimly be done, / That all the day after may hardly be won.
Some would be thought to do great things who are but tools and instruments, like the fool who fancied he played upon the organ when he only blew the bellows.
Something attempted, something done, / Has
earned a night's repose.
Something between a hindrance and a help.
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Something is wanting to science until it has been humanised.
Something of a person's character may be discovered by observing when and how he smiles. Some people never smile. They only grin.
Sometimes from her eyes / I did receive fair
speechless messages.
Sometimes ideas are made flesh; they breathe upon us with warm breath; they touch us with soft responsive hands; they look upon us with sad, sincere eyes, and speak to us in appealing tones.
Sometimes the half is better than the whole, / And sometimes worse than none; the dubious soul / Suspects the secret there in what is hid, / And holds the rest but trash.
Sometimes / 'Tis well to be bereft of promised good, / That we may lift the soul, and contemplate / With lively joy the joys we cannot share.
Somnus agrestium / Lenis virorum non humiles domos / Fastidit, umbrosamque ripam
Somnus est imago mortis
Son genre n'est pas le plus grand, mais elle est la plus grande dans son genre
Sonder Falsch wie die Tauben! und ihr beleidiget keinen; / Aber klug wie die Schlangen und euch beleidiget keiner
Song is the heroic of speech.
Song is the tone of feeling.
Songs may exist unsung, but voices exist
only when they sound.
Soon enough, if well enough.
Soon hot, soon cold.
Soon or late the strong need the help of the weak.
Soon ripe, soon rotten.
Sooner earth / Might go round heaven, and
the strait girth of Time / Inswathe the fulness of Eternity, / Than language grasp the infinite of Love.
Sooner or later the truth comes to light.
Soothed with the sound, the king grew vain, / Fought all his battles o'er again; / And thrice he routed all his foes, / And thrice he slew the slain.
Sordid and infamous sensuality, the most dreadful of the evils that issued from the box of Pandora, corrupts every heart and eradicates every virtue.
Sorex suo perit indicio
Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours, / Makes the night morning and the noontide night.
Sorrow concealed, like an oven stopped, / Doth burn the heart to cinders where it is.
Sorrow has ever produced more melody than mirth.
Sorrow has not been given us for sorrow's sake, but always as a lesson from which we are to learn somewhat, which once learned, it ceases to be sorrow.
Sorrow is always toward ourselves, not
heaven; / Showing, we would not spare heaven, as we love it, / But as we stand in fear.
Sorrow is an enemy, but it carries a friend's message within it too. All life is as death; and the tree Igdrasil, which reaches up to heaven, goes down to the kingdom of hell; and God, the Everlasting Good and Just, is in it all.
Sorrow is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better.
Sorrow is good for nothing but sin.
Sorrow is knowledge; they who know the most must mourn the deepest over the fatal truth, the tree of knowledge is not that of life.
Sorrow is shadow to life, moving where life doth move.
Sorrow is the mere rust of the soul. Activity
will cleanse and brighten it.
Sorrow, like a heavy-hanging bell, once set on ringing, with his own strength goes; then little strength rings out the doleful knell.
Sorrow like this / Draws parted lives in one, and knits anew / The rents which time has made.
Sorrow of spirit (like Night among the Greeks) is the mother of gods.
Sorrow seems sent for our instruction, as we darken the cages of birds when we would teach them to sing.
Sorrow that is couched in seeming gladness /
Is like that mirth fate turns to sudden sadness.
Sorrow will pay no debt.
Sorrows are like thunder-clouds--in the distance they look black, over our heads hardly gray.
Sorrows are often evolved from good fortune.
Sorrow's crown of sorrow is remembering happier things.
Sorrows remembered sweeten present joy.
Sors tua mortalis; non est mortale quod optas
Sort thy heart to patience; / These few days' wonder will be quickly worn.
Sotto voce
Souffrir est la première chose qu'il doit apprendre, et celle qu'il aura le plus grand besoin de savoir
Souls made of fire, and children of the sun,
with whom revenge is virtue.
Souls must become expanded by the contemplation of Nature's grandeur before they can first comprehend the greatness of man.
Sound and sufficient reason falls, after all, to the share of but few men, and those few men exert their influence in silence.
Sound maxims are the germs of good; strongly imprinted on the memory, they nourish the will.
Sound, sound the clarion, fill the fife! / To all the sensual world proclaim, / One crowded hour of glorious life / Is worth an age without a name.
Sound the loud timbrel o'er Egypt's dark sea! /
Jehovah has triumph'd, His people are free.
Sound trumpets!--let our bloody colours wave; / And either victory or else a grave.
Soupçon est d'amitié poison
Sour woe delights in fellowship, / And needly will be rank'd with other griefs.
Souvent la perfidie retourne sur son auteur
Sow good works and you will reap gladness.
Soyez comme l'oiseau, posé pour un instant / Sur des rameaux trop frêles, / Qui sent ployer la branche et qui chante pourtant, / Sachant qu'il a des ailes
Soyez ferme
Soyons doux, si nous voulons être regrettés. La hauteur du génie et les qualités supérieures ne sont pleurées que des anges
Space is the statue of God.
Spare but to spend, and only spend to spare.
Spare the rod and spoil the child.
Sparen ist grössere Kunst als erwerben
Sparing or spending, be thy wisdom seen / In keeping ever to the golden mean.
Speak every man truth with his neighbour.
Speak gently!--'tis a little thing, / Dropped
in the heart's deep well.
Speak in such a manner between two enemies, that, should they afterwards become friends, you may not be put to the blush.
Speak little and to the purpose.
Speak little, but speak the truth.
Speak no evil of a man if you know it not of him for certain, and if you do know it, then ask yourself, "Why do I tell it?"
Speak not at all till you have somewhat to
speak; and care simply and with undivided mind for the truth of your speaking.
Speak not peace to thyself when beset on every side with numerous and restless enemies.
Speak o' the deil and he'll appear.
Speak of me as I am; nothing extenuate, / Nor set down aught in malice. Then must you speak / Of one who loved not wisely but too well.
Speak that I may see thee.
Speak the truth, and all nature and all spirits
help you with unexpected furtherance; all things alive or brute are vouchers, and the very roots of the grass underground there do seem to stir and move to bear you witness.
Speak the truth and shame the devil.
Speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward.
Speak well of the absent whenever you have a suitable opportunity.
Speak well of your friend; of your enemy say nothing.
Speak when you are spoken to, and come
when you are called for.
Speak your sincerest, think your wisest; there is still a great gulf between you and the fact.
Speaking comes by nature, silence by understanding.
Speaking much is a sign of vanity; for he that is lavish in words is a niggard in deed.
Speaking without thinking is shooting without aim.
Spectatum veniunt, veniunt spectentur ut ipsæ
Spectemur agendo
Spectres exist for those only who wish to see them.
Speculation should have free course and look fearlessly towards all the thirty-two points of the compass, whithersoever and howsoever it listeth.
Speech, even the commonest, has something of song in it.
Speech has been given to man to disguise his
thought.
Speech is a laggard and a sloth, but the eyes shoot forth an electric fluid that condenses all the elements of sentiment and passion in one single emanation.
Speech is external thought, and thought internal speech.
Speech is like tapestry unfolded, where the imagery appears distinct; but thoughts, like tapestry in the bale, where the figures are rolled up together.
Speech is morning to the mind; it spreads the beauteous images abroad, which else lie furled or clouded in the soul.
Speech is power: speech is to persuade, to
convert, to compel. It is to bring another out of his bad sense into your good sense.
Speech is the gift of all, but thought of few.
Speech is too often, not the art of concealing thought, but of quite stifling or suspending thought, so that there is none to conceal.
Speech of a man's self ought to be seldom and well chosen.
Speech that leads not to action, still more that hinders it, is a nuisance on the earth.
Speedy execution is the mother of good fortune.
Spem gregis
Spem pretio non emo
Spend not on hopes.
Sperat infestis, metuit secundis / Alteram sortem bene præparatum / Pectus
Sperate, et vosmet rebus servate secundis
Speravi
Speravimus ista / Dum fortuna fuit
Spero meliora
Spes bona dat vires, animum quoque spes bona firmat; / Vivere spe vidi qui moriturus erat
Spes mea Christus
Spes mea in Deo
Spes sibi quisque
Spes tutissima cœlis
Spesso chi troppo fa, poco fa
Spesso d'un gran male nasce un gran bene
Spesso i doni sono danni
Spesso la tardità ti toglie l'occasione et la celerità le forze
Spill not the morning (the quintessence of the day) in recreation, for sleep itself is a recreation. Add not, therefore, sauce to sauce.
Spinner, spin softly, you disturb me. I am praying.
Spinoza was a God-intoxicated man
Spirit is the creator. Spirit hath life in itself. And man in all ages and countries embodies it in his language as the Father.
Spirit of Nature! / The pure diffusion of thy essence throbs / Alike in every human heart. / Thou aye erectest there / Thy throne of power unappealable; / Thou art the judge beneath whose nod / Man's brief and frail authority / Is powerless as the wind / That passeth idly by. / Thine the tribunal which surpasseth / The show of human justice, / As God surpasseth man.
Spirit-power begins in directing animal power to other than egoistic ends.
Spirits are not finely touch'd / But to fine issues, nor Nature never lends / The smallest scruple of her excellence / But, like a thrifty goddess, she determines / Herself the glory of a creditor, / Both thanks and use.
Spirits, when they please, / Can either sex
assume, or both.
Spiritual music can only spring from discords set in unison; but for evil there were no good, as victory is only possible by battle.
Spite of all the criticising elves, / Those who would make us feel must feel themselves.
Spite of cormorant devouring Time, / The endeavour of this present breath may buy / That honour which will bate his scythe's keen edge, / And make us heirs of all eternity.
Splendida vitia
Splendide mendax
Spolia opima
Sport is the bloom and glow of perfect health.
Sprechen ist silbern, Schweigen ist golden
Sprich nicht von Zeit, sprich nicht von Raum, / Denn Raum und Zeit sind nur ein Traum, / Ein schwerer Traum, den nur vergisst, / Wer durch die Liebe glücklich ist
Sprich vom Geheimniss nicht geheimnissvoll
St. Theresa right well defines the devil as an
unfortunate who knows not what it is to love.
Stab at thee who will, / No stab the soul can kill.
Stabat mater dolorosa / Juxta crucem lacrymosa / Qua pendebat Filius
Stabit quocunque jeceris
Stagnation is something more than death, it is corruption also.
Stain
resentment, nor take off from the brightness of thy crown by anger and impatience and eagerness to right thyself.
Stand fast! to stand or fall, / Free in thine own arbitrament it stands.
Stand not upon the order of your going, / But go at once.
"Stand out of the sun."
Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord.
Stand up bravely to afflictions, and quit thyself
like a man.
Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein.
Standing on what too long we bore / With shoulders bent and downcast eyes, / We may discern--unseen before--/ A path to higher destinies.
Stant cætera tigno
Stare super vias antiquas
Stark est des Menschen Arm, wenn ihn Götter
stützen
Stars look down upon me with pity from their serene and silent places, like eyes glistening with tears over the little lot of man. Arcturus and Orion, Sirius and Pleiades, are still shining in their courses, clear and young, as when the shepherd first noted them in the plain of Shinar!
Stat sua cuique dies; breve et irreparabile tempus / Omnibus est vitæ; sed famam extendere factis, / Hoc virtutis opus
States are to be called happy and noble in so far as they settle rightly who is slave and who free.
Statesmen that are wise / Shape a necessity, as sculptor clay, / To their own model.
Statio bene fida carinis
Status quo ante bellum
Status quo
Stay awhile to make an end the sooner.
Steady, durable good cannot be derived from an external cause, by reason all derived from externals must fluctuate as they fluctuate. What then remains but the cause internal; in rectitude of conduct?
Steam is no stronger now than it was a hundred
years ago, but it is put to better use.
Steckenpferde sind theurer als arabische Hengste
Steep and craggy is the path of the gods.
Steep regions cannot be surmounted except by winding paths.
Stemmata quid faciunt? Quid prodest, Pontice, longo / Sanguine censeri?
Step by step one goes far.
Steps vary as much as the human face.
Stern accuracy in inquiring, bold imagination in expounding and filling up, these are the two pinions on which history soars--or flutters and wabbles.
Stern daughter of the voice of God.
Stern Ruin's ploughshare drives elate / Full on thy bloom.
Stet
Stet fortuna domus
Stets ist die Sprache kecker als die That
Stets liegt, wo das Banner der Wahrheit wallt, / Der Aberglaube im Hinterhalt
Stets zu spät kommt gute Kunde, / Schlechte Kunde zu frühe
Steward or deputy may do well: but the lord
himself is obliged to stir in the administration of justice.
Stiff (a) and laboured manner is as bad in a letter as it is in conversation.... Sprightliness and wit are graceful in letters, just as they are in conversation.
Stiff in opinions, always in the wrong, / Was everything by starts, and nothing long; / But in the course of one revolving moon / Was chemist, fiddler, statesman, and buffoon.
Still humanity grows dearer; / Being learned the more.
Still in thy right hand carry gentle peace, / To silence envious tongues.
Still people are dangerous.
Still raise for good the supplicating voice, / But leave to Heaven the measure and the choice.
Still seems it strange that thou shouldst live for ever? Is it less strange that thou shouldst live at all? This is a miracle; and that no more.
Still swine eat all the draff.
Still the sight of too great beauty blinds us,
and we lose / The sense of earthly splendours, gaining heaven.
Still the skies are opened as of old / To the entrancèd gaze, ay, nearer far / And brighter than of yore.
Still they gazed, and still the wonder grew / That one small head could carry all he knew.
Still to the lowly soul / He doth Himself impart, / And for His cradle and His throne / Chooseth the pure in heart.
Still und bewegt
Still waters run deep.
Stillest streams oft water finest meadows, / And the bird that flutters least is longest on the wing.
Stillness of person and steadiness of features are signal marks of good breeding. Vulgar persons can't sit still, or at least they must work their limbs or features.
Stirb, Götz, du hast dich selbst überlebt
Stirb und werde! / Denn so lang du das nicht hast, / Bist du nur ein trüber Gast / Auf der dunkeln Erde
Stirring spirits live alone: / Write on the
others, "Here lies such a one."
Sto pro veritate
Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.
Stone masons collected the dome of St. Paul's, but Wren hung it in the air.
Stony limits cannot hold love out; / And what love can do, that dares love attempt.
Store of grain, O king! is the best of stores.
A gem cast into the mouth will not support life.
Store Ord giöre sielden from Gierning
Storms make oaks take deeper root.
Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, that leadeth unto life; and few there be that find it.
Strange cozenage! none would live past years again; / Yet all hope pleasure in what yet remain; / And from the dregs of life think to receive / What the first sprightly running could not give.
Strange is the life of man, and fatal or fated
are moments, / Whereupon turn, as on hinges, the gates of the wall adamantine!
Strange trade that of advocacy. Your intellect, your highest heavenly gift, hung up in the shop window like a loaded pistol for sale; will either blow out a pestilent scoundrel's brains, or the scoundrel's salutary sheriff's officer's (in a sense), as you please to choose, for your guinea.
Stranger or countryman to me / Welcome alike shall ever be. / To ask of any guest his name, / Or whose he is, or whence he came, / I hold can never be his part / Who owns a hospitable heart.
Straws show which way the wind blows.
Strength alone knows conflict; weakness is below even defeat, and is born vanquished.
Strength, instead of being the lusty child of
passions, grows by grappling with and throwing them.
Strength needs support far more than weakness. A feather sustains itself long in the air.
Strength of mind is exercise, not rest.
Strength of mind rests in sobriety, for this keeps the reason unclouded by passion.
Strength was the virtue of Paganism; obedience is the virtue of Christianity.
Strenua nos exercet inertia; navibus atque /
Quadrigis petimus bene vivere; quod petis hic est
Strict laws are like steel bodices, good for growing limbs; but when the joints are knit, they are not helps, but burdens.
Strict punctuality is perhaps the cheapest virtue which can give force to an otherwise utterly insignificant character.
Strictly speaking, the imagination is never governed; it is always the ruling and divine power, and the rest of the man is to it only as an instrument which it sounds, or a tablet on which it writes; clearly and sublimely if the wax be smooth and the strings true, grotesquely and wildly if they are stained and broken.
Strike, but hear me.
Strike flat the thick rotundity o' the world! /
Crack Nature's moulds, all germens spill at once, / That make ungrateful man!
Strike those that hurt, and hurt not those that help.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Striking manners are bad manners.
Strip the bishop of his apron, the counsellor of his gown, and the beadle of his cocked hat, what are they? Men, mere men. Dignity, and even holiness too sometimes, are more questions of coat and waistcoat than some people imagine.
Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends.
Strive not against the stream.
Strive to do thy duty; then shalt thou know what is in thee.
Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.
Strong character curdles itself out of the scum into its own place and power or impotence.
Strong characters are brought out by change of situation, gentle ones by permanence.
Strong conceit, like a new principle, carries all easily with it, when yet above commonsense.
Strong feeling must create poetry.
Strong folks have strong maladies.
Strong passions are the life of manly virtues. But they need not necessarily be evil because they are passions and because they are strong. The passions may be likened to blood horses, that need training and the curb only to enable them whom they carry to achieve the most glorious triumphs.
Strong reasons make strong actions.
Strong Son of God, immortal Love, / Whom we that have not seen Thy face, / By faith, and faith alone, embrace, / Believing where we cannot prove.
Stronger than steel / Is the sword of the
spirit; / Swifter than arrows / The life of the truth is; / Greater than anger / Is love, and subdueth.
Strongest minds / Are often those of whom the noisy world / Hears least.
Studies perfect nature, and are perfected by experience.
Studies serve for delight, for ornament, and for ability.
Studiis et rebus honestis
Studiis florentem ignobilis oti
Studio minuente laborem
Study gives strength to the mind; conversation, grace.
Study is like the heaven's glorious sun, / That will not be deep-searched with saucy looks.
Study is the bane of boyhood, the element of youth, the indulgence of manhood, and the restorative of age.
Study of the Bible will keep any man from
being vulgar in style.
Study the best and highest things that are, / But of thyself an humble thought retain.
Study the past if you would divine the future.
Study thyself; what rank or what degree / The wise Creator hath ordained for thee.
Study to be quiet; contain yourself within your own business, and let the prying, censorious, the vain and the intriguing world follow their own devices.
Study to be what you wish to seem.
Stulta maritali jam porrigit ora capistro
Stultus nisi quod ipse facit, nil rectum putat
Stulti sunt inumerabiles
Stultitiam dissimulare non potes nisi taciturnitate
Stultitiam patiuntur opes
Stultitiam simulare loco, sapientia summa est
Stultorum incurata malus pudor ulcera celat
Stultum est timere quod vitari non potest
Stultus es, rem actam agis
Stultus labor est ineptiarum
Stultus, qui, patre occiso, liberos relinquat
Stultus semper incipit vivere
Stunden der Noth vergiss, doch was sie dich lehrten, vergiss nie
Stung by straitness of our life, made strait / On purpose to make sweet the life at large.
Stupid people and uneducated people do not
care for nice discriminations. They always have decided opinions.
Stupid people move like lay-figures, while every joint of an intelligent man is eloquent.
Stupidity has its sublime as well as genius.
Stupidity is without anxiety.
Sturm-und Drang-Periode
Style is the dress of thoughts.
Style is the physiognomy of the mind.
Style is what gives value and currency to thought.
Style may be defined, proper words in proper places.
Stylo inverso
Stylum vertere
Sua cuique Deus fit dira cupido
Sua cuique quum sit animi cogitatio, / Colorque proprius
Sua cuique vita obscura est
Sua cuique voluptas
Sua quisque exempla debet æquo animo pati
Suave, mari magno turbantibus aequora ventis / E terra magnum alterius spectare laborem!
Suavis est laborum præteritorum memoria
Suaviter et fortiter
Suaviter in modo, fortiter in re
"Suaviter in modo, fortiter in re,"--I do not know any one rule so unexceptionably useful and necessary in every part of life.
Sub cruce candida
Sub cruce salus
Sub fine
Sub hoc signo vinces
Sub initio
Sub Jove
Sub judice lis est
Sub pœna
Sub reservatione Jacobæo
Sub rosa
Sub silentio
Sub specie æternitatis
Subdue fate, and exert human strength to the utmost of your power; and if, when pains have been taken, success attend not, in whom is the blame?
Sublata causa tollitur effectus
Sublimer in this world know I nothing than a peasant saint, one that must toil outwardly for the lowest of man's wants, also toiling inwardly for the highest. Such a one will carry thee back to Nazareth itself.
Sublimi feriam sidera vertice
Sublimity is Hebrew by birth.
Submitting to one wrong often brings on another.
Subtilis veterum judex et callidus audis
Subtlety may deceive you; integrity never will.
Subverting worldly strong and worldly wise, /
By simply meek.
Succedaneum
Success (by laws of competition) signifies always so much victory over your neighbour as to obtain the direction of his work and take the profits of it. This is the real source of all great riches.
Success consecrates the foulest crimes.
Success? If the thing is unjust, thou hast not succeeded.
Success in the majority of circumstances depends
on knowing how long it takes to succeed.
Success in war, like charity in religion, covers a multitude of sins.
Success is full of promise till men get it, and then it seems like a nest from which the bird has flown.
Success is sweet; the sweeter if long delayed, and attained through manifold struggles and defeats.
Success is the child of audacity.
Success makes men look larger, if reflection
does not measure them.
Success makes success, as money makes money.
Success often costs more than it is worth.
Success tempts many to their ruin.
Success throws a veil over the evil deeds of men.
Success! to thee, as to a god, men bend the
knee.
Successful love takes a load off our hearts and puts it on our shoulders.
Such a friend as speaketh kindly to a man's face, and behind his back defeateth his designs, is like a pot of poison with a surface of milk.
Such a genius as philosophers must of necessity have is wont but seldom, in all its parts, to meet in one man; but its different parts generally spring up in different persons.
Such a plot must have a woman in it.
Such as are careless of themselves can hardly
be mindful of others.
Such as are in the married state wish to get out, and such as are out wish to get in.
Such as every one is inwardly, so he judgeth outwardly.
Such as we are made of, such we be.
Such hath been--shall be--beneath the sun, / That many still must labour for the one.
Such is hope, Heaven's own gift to struggling
mortals; pervading, like some subtle essence from the skies, all things both good and bad.
Such is the aspect of this shore; / 'Tis Greece, but living Greece no more! / So coldly sweet, so deadly fair, / We start, for soul is wanting there.
Such only enjoy the country as are capable of thinking when they are there; then they are prepared for solitude, and in that case solitude is prepared for them.
Such tricks hath strong imagination, / That, if it would but apprehend some joy, / It comprehends some bringer of that joy; / Or in the night, imagining some fear, / How easy is a bush supposed a bear.
Such war of white and red within her cheeks.
Suche die Wissenschaft als würdest ewig du
hier sein, / Tugend, als hielte der Tod dich schon am sträubenden Haar
Sucht nur die Menschen zu verwirren, / Sie zu befriedigen ist schwer
Sudden blaze of kindness may, by a single blast of coldness, be extinguished; but that fondness which length of time has connected with many circumstances and occasions, though it may for a while be suppressed by disgust or resentment, with or without cause, is hourly revived by accidental recollection.
Sudden love is the latest cured.
Sudden resolutions, like the sudden rise of the mercury in the barometer, indicate little else than the changeableness of the weather.
Sudden tumultuous popularity comes more from partial delirium on both sides than from clear insight, and is of evil omen to all concerned with it.
Suer sang et eau
Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven.
Suffer no hour to slide by without its due improvement.
Suffer thyself to be led in everything but feeling and thinking.
Sufferance is the badge of all our tribe.
Suffering in human life is very widely vicarious.
Suffering is part of the divine idea.
Suffering is the mother of fools, reason of wise men.
Suffering which falls to our lot in the course of nature, or by chance or fate, does not, "ceteris paribus," seem so painful as suffering which is inflicted on us by the arbitrary will of another.
Suffice unto thy good, though it be small, / For hoard hath hate, and climbing tickleness;
Suffice unto thy good, though it be small, / For hoard hath hate, and climbing tickleness; (uncertainty) / 
Suffice unto thy good, though it be small, / For hoard hath hate, and climbing tickleness; (uncertainty) /  is blent o'er all.
Sufficiency is a compound of vanity and ignorance.
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.
Sufficiently provided from within, he has need of little from without.
Sufficit huic tumulus, cui non suffecerit orbis
Suffundere malis hominis sanguinem, quam offundere
Suggestio falsi
Sui cuique mores fingunt fortunam
Sui generis
Sui juris
Suis stat viribus
Suit the action to the word, the word to the
action; with this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of nature.
Suivez raison
Sum quod eris, fui quod es
Sum up at night what thou hast done by day; / And in the morning what thou hast to do.
Sume superbiam quæsitam meritis
Sumite materiam vestris, qui scribitis, æquam /
Viribus, et versate diu, quid ferre recusent, / Quid valeant humeri
Summa bona putas, aliena vivere quadra
Summa petit livor
Summa sequor fastigia rerum
Summa summarum
Summæ opes inopia cupiditatum
Summam nec metuas diem, nec optes
Summum bonum
Summum crede nefas animam præferre pudori, / Et propter vitam vivendi perdere causas
Summum jus sæpe summa injuria est
Sunbeams pour alike their glorious tide / To light up worlds or wake an insect's mirth.
Sunday is the core of our civilisation, dedicated to thought and reverence.
Sundays observe; think when the bells do chime, / 'Tis angels' music, therefore come not late.
Sunlight is painting.
Sunrise is often lovelier than noon.
Sunt bona mixta malis, sunt mala mixta bonis
Sunt bona, sunt quædam mediocria, sunt mala plura / Quæ legis
Sunt delicta tamen, quibus ignovisse velimus
Sunt Jovis omnia plena
Sunt lacrymæ rerum, et mentem mortalia tangunt
Sunt pueri pueri, pueri puerilia tractant
Sunt superis sua jura
Suo Marte
Super subjectam materiam
Superbo è quel cavallo che non si vuol portar
la biada
Superfluity comes sooner by white hairs, but competency lives longer.
Superior powers of mind and profound study are of no use if they do not sometimes lead a person to different conclusions from those which are formed by ordinary powers of mind without study.
Superior strength is found in the long-run to lie with those who had the right on their side.
Supersedeas
Superstition changes a man to a beast,
fanaticism makes him a wild beast, and despotism a beast of burden.
Superstition is a misdirection of religious feeling.
Superstition is an unreasoning fear of God; religion consists in the pious worship of the gods.
Superstition is but the fear of belief; religion is the confidence.
Superstition is certainly not the characteristic of this age. Yet some men are bigoted in politics who are infidels in religion.
Superstition is in its death-lair; the last
agonies may endure for decades or for centuries; but it carries the iron in its heart, and will not vex the earth any more.
Superstition is inherent in man's nature; and when we think it is wholly eradicated, it takes refuge in the strangest holes and corners, whence it peeps out all at once, as soon as it can do so with safety.
Superstition is passing away without return. Religion cannot pass away. The burning of a little straw may hide the stars in the sky; but the stars are there, and will re-appear.
Superstition is related to this life, religion to the next; superstition allies itself to fatality, religion to virtue; it is by the vitality of earthly desires we become superstitious, and by the sacrifice of these desires that we become religious.
Superstition is the fear of a spirit whose passions and acts are those of a man, who is present in some places, and not in others; who makes some places holy, and not others; who is kind to one person, and unkind to another; who is pleased or angry according to the degree of attention you pay him, or praise you refuse him; who is hostile generally to human pleasure, but may be bribed by sacrificing a part of that pleasure into permitting the rest.
Superstition is the only religion of which base
souls are capable.
Superstition is the poesy of life, so that it does not injure the poet to be superstitious.
Superstition! that horrid incubus which dwelt in darkness, shunning the light, with all its racks, and poison chalices, and foul sleeping draughts, is passing away without return.
Superstition without a veil is a deformed thing.
Superstitions would soon die out if so many old women would not act as nurses to keep them alive.
Supple knees feed arrogance.
Suppose a neighbour should desire / To light a candle at your fire, / Would it deprive your flame of light / Because another profits by't.
Suppressing love is but opposing the natural dictates of the heart.
Suppressio veri
Supra vires
Supremum vale
Sur esperance
Surdo fabulam narras
Sure as night follows day, / Death treads in pleasure's footsteps round the world, / When pleasure treads the path which reason shuns.
Sure, he that made us with such large discourse, / Looking before and after, gave us not / That capability and godlike reason / To fust in us unused.
Sure, of qualities demanding praise, / More go
to ruin fortunes, than to raise.
Sure those who have neither strength nor weapons to fight at least should be civil.
Surely half the world must be blind; they can see nothing unless it glitters.
Surely it is better to enclose the gulf and hinder all access, than by encouraging us to advance a little, to entice us afterwards a little further, and let us perceive our folly only by our destruction.
Surely life, if it be not long, is tedious, since we are forced to call in the assistance of so many trifles to rid us of our time, of that time which can never return.
Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men
of high degree are a lie; to be laid in the balance they are altogether lighter than vanity.
Surely nobody would be a charlatan who could afford to be sincere.
Surely the best way is to meet the enemy in the field, and not wait till he plunders us in our very bed-chamber.
Surely use alone / Makes money not a contemptible stone.
Surement va qui n'a rien
Surfeit has killed more than hunger.
Surfeit of the sweetest things / The deepest loathing to the stomach brings.
Surfeits destroy more than the sword.
Surgit post nubila Phœbus
Sursum corda
Surtout, messieurs, pas de zèle
Sus Minervam
Susceptibility to one class of influences, the selection of what is fit for him, the rejection of what is unfit, determines for a man the character of the universe.
Suspectum semper invisumque dominantibus, qui proximus destinaretur
Suspendens omnia naso
Suspense is worse than disappointment.
Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind; / The thief doth fear each bush an officer.
Suspicion is a heavy armour, and with its own weight impedes more than protects.
Suspicion is no less an enemy to virtue than to
happiness.
Suspicion is the bane of friendship.
Suspicion is very often a useless pain.
Suspicion shall be all stuck full of eyes.
Suspicions amongst thoughts are like bats amongst birds; they ever fly by twilight; they are to be repressed, or at the least well guarded, for they cloud the mind.
Suspicions are nothing when a man is really
true, and every one should persevere in acting honestly, for all will be made right in time.
Süsser Wein giebt sauern Essig
Sustine et abstine
Suum cuique
Suum cuique decus posteritas rependit
Suus cuique est mos
Suus cuique mos
Suum cuique tribuere, ea demum summa justitia est
Swearing is invoking the witness of a spirit to an assertion you wish to make, but cursing is invoking the assistance of a spirit in a mischief you wish to inflict.
Sweep before your own door.
Sweet are the uses of adversity, / Which like
the toad, ugly and venomous, / Wears yet a precious jewel in his head; / And this our life, exempt from public haunt, / Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, / Sermons in stones, and good in everything.
Sweet bird, that shunn'st the noise of folly, / Most musical, most melancholy.
Sweet flowers are slow, and weeds make haste.
Sweet is the breath of morn, her rising sweet, / With charm of earliest birds.
Sweet is the lore which Nature brings; / Our meddling intellect / Misshapes the beauteous form of things: / We murder to dissect.
Sweet is true love though given in vain, / And
sweet is death that puts an end to pain.
Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge.
Sweet pliability of man's spirit, that can at once surrender itself to illusions which cheat expectation and sorrow of their weary moments!
Sweet reader, do you know what a toady is? That agreeable animal which you meet every day in civilised society.
Sweet Swan of Avon.
Sweetest melodies are those that are by distance
made more sweet.
Swift kindnesses are best: a long delay / In kindness takes the kindness all away.
Swift to its close ebbs out life's little day.
Sworn to no master, of no sect am I; / As drives the storm, at any door I knock, / And house with Montaigne now, and now with Locke.
Syllables govern the world.
Sympathetic people are often uncommunicative
about themselves; they give back reflected images which hide their own depths.
Sympathising and selfish people are alike given to tears.
Sympathy can create the boldness which no other means can evoke.
Sympathy is the first condition of criticism; reason and justice presuppose, at their origin, emotion.
Sympathy is the first great lesson which man should learn.... Unless he learns to feel for things in which he has no personal interest, he can achieve nothing generous or noble.
Sympathy is the solace of the poor, but for the
rich there is consolation.
Sympathy is two hearts tugging at one load.
Sympathy wanting, all is wanting; its personal magnetism is the conductor of the sacred spark that lights our atoms, puts us in human communion, and gives us to company, conversation, and ourselves.
Sympathy with Nature is a part of the good man's religion.
Syne as ye brew, ... / Keep mind that ye maun drink the yill.
Tabesne cadavera solvat, / An rogus, haud
refert
Tabula ex
Table d'hôte
Tableau vivant
Tabula rasa
Tacent, satis laudant
Tâche sans tache
Tacitæ magis et occultæ inimicitiæ sunt, quam indictæ et opertæ
Tacitum vivit sub pectore vulnus
Tact is one of the first of mental virtues, the absence of which is often fatal to the best talents. It supplies the place of many talents.
Tadeln kann ein jeder Bauer; besser machen wird ihm sauer
Tadeln können zwar die Thoren, / Aber klüger handeln nicht
Tædium vitæ
Tages Arbeit, Abends Gäste, / Saure Wochen,
frohe Feste, / Sei dein künftig Zauberwort
Take a bird from a clean nest.
Take a farthing from a thousand pounds, it will be a thousand pounds no longer.
Take a hair of the same dog that bit you, and it will heal the wound.
Take a stick to a Highland laddie, and it's no him you hurt, but his ancestors.
Take all that is given, whether wealth, / Or
love, or language; nothing comes amiss; / A good digestion turneth all to health.
Take any subject of sorrowful regret, and see with how much pleasure it is associated.
Take away desire from the heart, and you take away the air from the earth.
Take care of the pence; the pounds will take care of themselves.
Take care to be an economist in prosperity; there is no fear of your not being one in adversity.
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy
judgment.
Take everything easy
 (
Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: keep her, for she is thy life.
Take from the philosopher the pleasure of being heard, and his desire for knowledge ceases.
Take heed, and beware of covetousness; for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth.
Take heed of the vinegar of sweet wine.
Take heed you find not that you do not seek.
Take-it-easy and Live-long are brothers.
Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart; and ye shall find rest unto your souls.
Take no thought for the morrow; for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself.
Take no thought for your life, what ye shall
eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on.
Take not His name who made thy mouth in vain: / It gets thee nothing, and has no excuse.
Take note, take note, O world, / To be direct and honest is not safe.
Take physic, pomp; / Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel; / That thou mayst shake the superflux to them, / And show the heavens more just.
Take the Muses' servants by the hand; / ... And where ye justly can commend, commend them; / And aiblins when they winna stand the test, / Wink hard, and say the folks hae done their best.
Take the showers as they fall, / ... Enough
if at the end of all / A little garden blossom.
Take this rule, ... The best-bred child hath the best portion.
Take thou the beam out of thine own eye; then shalt thou see clearly to take the mote out of thy brother's.
Take thought for thy body with steadfast fidelity. The soul must see through these eyes alone; and if they are dim, the whole world is beclouded.
Take time by the forelock.
Take time in time, ere time be tint
Take time in turning a corner.
Take up the torch and wave it wide, / The torch that lights Time's thickest gloom.
Take your thirst to the stream, as the dog does.
Taking, therefore, my opinion of the English from the virtues and vices practised among the vulgar, they at once present to a stranger all their faults, and keep their virtues up only for the inquiring of a philosopher.
Tale tuum carmen nobis, divine poeta, / Quale
sopor fessis
Talent alone cannot make a writer. There must be a man behind the book.
Talent for literature, thou hast such a talent? Believe it not, be slow to believe it! To speak or to write, Nature did not peremptorily order thee; but to work she did.
Talent forms itself in secret; character, in the great current of the world.
Talent has almost always this advantage
over genius--that the former endures, the latter often explodes, or runs to waste
Talent is a cistern; genius, a fountain.
Talent is a gift which God has imparted in secret, and which we reveal without knowing it.
Talent is some one faculty unusually developed; genius commands all the faculties.
Talent is something, but tact is everything. It is not a seventh sense, but is the life of all the five. It is the open eye, the quick ear, the judging taste, the keen smell, and the lively touch; it is the interpreter of all riddles, the surmounter of all difficulties, the remover of all obstacles.
Talent is that which is in a man's power; genius is that in whose power a man is.
Talent ist Form, Genie Stoff
Talent, lying in the understanding, is often inherited; genius, being the action of reason and imagination, rarely or never.
Talents angel-bright, if wanting worth, are shining instruments in false ambition's hand, to finish faults illustrious, and give infamy renown.
Talents give a man a superiority far more agreeable than that which proceeds from riches, birth, or employments, which are all external. Talents constitute our very essence.
Taliter qualiter
Talk, except as the preparation for work, is
worth almost nothing; sometimes it is worth infinitely less than nothing; and becomes, little conscious of playing such a fatal part, the general summary of pretentious nothingnesses, and the chief of all the curses the posterity of Adam are liable to in this sublunary world.
Talk of the devil and he'll appear.
Talk that does not end in action is better suppressed altogether.
Talk to him of Jacob's ladder, and he would ask the number of the steps.
Talkers are no good doers.
Talking is one of the fine arts.
Talking is the disease of age.
Talking of love is making it.
Talking with a host is next best to talking with one's self.... He is wiser than to contradict his guest in any case; he lets him go on, he lets him travel.
Tam deest avaro quod habet, quam quod non habet
Tam diu discendum est, quum diu nescias, et,
si proverbio credimus, quam diu vivas
Tam Marte quam Minerva
Tam Marti quam Mercurio
Tam felix utinam, quam pectore candidus, essem
Tam lo'ed him like a vera brither; / They had been fou for weeks thegither.
Tamen me / Cum magnis vixisse invita fatebitur
usque / Invidia
Tandem fit surculus arbor
Tandem poculum mœroris exhausit
Tangere ulcus
Tanquam in speculo
Tanquam nobilis
Tanquam ungues digitosque suos
Tant de fiel entre-t-il dans l'âme des dévots?
Tant mieux
Tant pis
Tant va la cruche à l'eau qu'à la fin elle se brise
Tantæ molis erat Romanam condere gentem
Tantæne animis cœlestibus iræ?
Tanti eris aliis, quanti tibi fueris
Tanto brevius omne tempus, quanto felicius
Tanto buon, che val niente
Tanto fortior, tanto felicior!
Tanto più di pregio reca all' opera l'umiltà dell' artista, quanto più aggiunge di valori al numero la nullità del zero
Tanto vale la Messa detta quanto la cantata
Tantum quantum
Tantum religio potuit suadere malorum
Tantum series juncturaque / Tantum de medio sumptis accedit honoris
Tantum vertice in auras / Aetherias quantum radice in Tartara tendit
Tantus amor laudum, tantæ est victoria curæ
Tapfer ist der Löwesieger, / Tapfer ist der
Weltbezwinger, / Tapfer wer sich selbst bezwang
Tarda sit illa dies, et nostro serior ævo
Tarda solet magnis rebus inesse fides
Tarde, quæ credita lædunt, credimus
Tarde sed tute
Tarde venientibus ossa
Tardiora sunt remedia quam mala
Tasks in hours of insight willed, / In hours of gloom must be fulfilled.
Taste can only be educated by contemplation, not of the tolerably good, but of the truly excellent.
Taste depends upon those finer emotions which make the organisation of the soul.
Taste, if it mean anything but a paltry connoisseurship, must mean a general susceptibility to truth and nobleness; a sense to discern and a heart to love and reverence all beauty, order, goodness, wheresoever found and in whatsoever form and accompaniment.
Taste is the very maker of judgment.
Taste may change, but inclination never.
Taurum tollet qui vitulum sustulerit
Te Deum laudamus
Te digna sequere
Te, Fortuna, sequor: procul hinc jam fœdera sunto: / Credidimus fatis, utendum est judice bello
Te hominem esse memento
Te sine nil altum mens inchoat
Teach me to feel another's woe, / To hide the fault I see; / That mercy I to others show, / That mercy show to me.
Teach self-denial, and make its practice pleasurable, and you create for the world a destiny more sublime than ever issued from the brain of the wildest dreamer.
Teach your children poetry; it opens the mind, lends grace to wisdom, and makes the heroic virtues hereditary.
Teaching has not a tithe of the efficacy of
training.
Teaching is of more importance than exhortation.
Teaching others teacheth yourself.
Tearless grief bleeds inwardly.
Tears are due to human misery.
Tears are often to be found where there is
little sorrow, and the deepest sorrow without tears.
Tears are the deluge of sin and the world's sacrifice.
Tears are the symbol of the inability of the soul to restrain its emotion and retain its self-command.
Tears, idle tears, I know not what they mean, / Tears from the depth of some divine despair / Rise in the heart and gather in the eyes, / In looking on the happy autumn fields, / And thinking of the days that are no more.
Tears of joy are the dew in which the sun of righteousness is mirrored.
Tears of joy, like summer rain-drops, are
pierced by sunbeams.
Tears such as angels weep.
Tecum habita
Teeth, hair, nails, and the human species, prosper not when separated from their place. A wise man, being informed of this, should not totally forsake his native home.
Tel brille au second rang, qui s'éclipse au premier
Tel coup de langue est pire qu'un coup de
lance
Tel, en vous lisant, admire chaque trait, / Qui dans le fond de l'âme vous craint et vous hait
Tel excelle à rimer qui juge sottement
Tel maître, tel valet
Tel père, tel fils
Tel vous semble applaudir, qui vous raille et
vous joue; / Aimez qu'on vous conseille, et non pas qu'on vous loue
Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Askelon.
"Tell me how you bear so blandly the assuming ways of wild young people?" Truly they would be unbearable if I had not also been unbearable myself as well.
Tell me not, in mournful numbers, / "Life is but an empty dream," / For the soul is dead that slumbers, / And things are not what they seem.
Tell me what you like, and I will tell you what you are.
Tell me where is fancy bred, / Or in the heart,
or in the head? / How begot, how nourishéd? / It is engender'd in the eyes, / With gazing fed.
Tell me with whom you associate, and I will tell you who you are; if I know what it is with which you occupy yourself, I know what you may become.
Tell the truth and shame the devil.
Telum imbelle sine ictu
Temeritas est florentis ætatis, prudentia senescentis
Temper--a weapon that we hold by the blade.
Temper is so good a thing that we should never lose it.
Temperament lies behind mood; back of the caprice of will lies the fate of character; back of both is the bias of family; back of that, the tyranny of race; still deeper, the power of climate, of soil, of geology, the whole physical and moral environment. Still we are free men only so far as we rise above these.
Temperance and labour are the two best physicians of man.
Temperance is a bridle of gold.
Temperance is a tree which has for its root very little contentment, and for its fruit calm and peace.
Temperance is the nurse of chastity.
Tempi passati!
Templa quam dilecta!
Tempora labuntur, tacitisque senescimus annis;
/ Et fugiunt fræno non remorante dies
Tempora mutantur, nos et mutamur in illis
Tempore ducetur longo fortasse cicatrix; / Horrent admotas vulnera cruda manus
Tempted Fate will leave the loftiest star.
Tempus anima rei
Tempus edax rerum
Tempus erit quo vos speculum vidisse pigebit
Tempus est quædam pars æternitatis
Tempus ferax, tempus edax rerum
Tempus fugit
Tempus in agrorum cultu consumere dulce
est
Tempus omnia revelat
Tempus rerum imperator
Ten censure wrong for one who writes amiss.
Tenax et fidelis
Tenax propositi
Tendency to sentimental whining or fierce intolerance may be ranked among the surest symptoms of little souls and inferior intellects.
Tenderness is a virtue.
Tenderness is the repose of passion.
Tenebo
Teneros animos aliena opprobria sæpe / Absterrent vitiis
Tenet insanabile multos / Scribendi cacoëthes
Tenez la bride haute à votre fils
Tenir le haut du pavé
Tentanda via est qua me quoque possim /
Tollere humo, victorque virûm volitare per ora
Tenterden steeple was the cause of Goodwin Sands.
Ter conatus ibi collo dare brachia circum, / Ter frustra comprensa manus effugit imago
Teres atque rotundum
Terminus a quo
Terminus ad quem
Terra antiqua, potens armis atque ubere glebæ
Terra firma
Terra incognita
Terra innanzi, e terra poi
Terra malos homines nunc educat, atque
pusillos
Terræ filius
Terram cœlo miscent
Terrible penalty, with the ass-ears or without them, inevitable as death, written for ever in heaven, against all who, like Midas, misjudge the inner and the upper melodies, and prefer gold to goodness, desire to duty, falsehood to fact, wild nature to God, and a sensual piping Pan to a high-souled, wise-hearted, and spirit-breathing Apollo.
Tertium quid
Tertium sal
Tertius e cœlo cecidit Cato
Testimony is like an arrow shot from a long bow; the force of it depends upon the strength of the hand that draws it. Argument is like an arrow from a cross-bow, which has equal force though shot by a child.
Tête-à-tête
Tête d'armée!
Tête de fou ne blanchit jamais
Teuer ist mir der Freund, doch auch den Feind kann ich nützen; / Zeigt mir der Freund, was ich kann, lehrt mich der Feind, was ich soll
That action is not warrantable which either blushes to beg a blessing, or, having succeeded, dares not present a thanksgiving.
That but this blow / Might be the be-all and the end-all here, / But here, upon this bank and shoal of time, / We'd jump the life to come.
That carries anger as the flint bears fire; / Who, much enforcèd, shows a hasty spark, / And straight is cold again.
That cause is strong which has not a multitude, but one strong man behind it.
That circle of beings, which dependence gathers round us, is almost ever unfriendly.
That civility is best which excludes all superfluous formality.
That cutting up, and parcelling, and labelling,
of the indivisible human soul into what are called "faculties," I have from of old eschewed, and even hated.
That death's unnatural that kills for loving.
That elevation of mind which we see in moments of peril, if it is uncontrolled by justice, and strives only for its own advantage, becomes a crime.
That friendship only is, indeed, genuine when two friends, without speaking a word to each other, can, nevertheless, find happiness in being together.
That friendship, which is exerted in too wide a sphere, becomes totally useless.
That gentleman who sells an acre of land,
sells an ounce of credit.
That golden key that opes the palace of eternity.
That government is the best which makes government unnecessary.
That great mystery of time, were there no other; the illimitable, silent never-resting thing called "time," rolling, rushing on, swift, silent like an all-embracing oceantide, on which we and all the universe swim like exhalations, like apparitions which are and then are not--this is for ever very literally a miracle, a thing to strike us dumb; for we have no word to speak about it.
That grief is light which is capable of counsel.
That he is mad 'tis true; 'tis true, 'tis pity; /
And pity 'tis 'tis true.
That in the captain's but a choleric word, / Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.
That intention which fixes upon God as its only end will keep men steady in their purposes, and deliver them from being the jest and scorn of fortune.
That is a most wretched fortune which is without an enemy.
That is a treacherous friend against whom you must always be on your guard. Such a friend is wine.
That is always best which gives me to myself.
That is but an empty purse that is full of other men's money.
That is friendship which is not feigned.
That is gold that is worth gold.
That is indeed a twofold knowledge which profits alike by the folly of the foolish and the wisdom of the wise. It is both a shield and a sword; it borrows its security from the darkness, and its confidence from the light.
That is not a council wherein there are no
sages.
That is not a duty in which there is not virtue.
That is not possible which is impossible.
That is not virtue from which fear approacheth us.
That is the best part of beauty which a picture cannot express.
That is the best part of each writer which has
nothing private in it.
That is the briefest and sagest of maxims which bids us "meddle not."
That is the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
That is the true season of love, when we believe that we alone can love, that no one could ever have loved so before us, and that no one will love in the same way after us.
That is true love which is always the same, whether you give everything or deny everything to it.
That is well spoken that is well taken.
That last infirmity of noble minds.
That learning which thou gettest by thy own observation and experience is far beyond that which thou gettest by precept; as the knowledge of a traveller exceeds that which is got by reading.
That life is long which answers life's great end.
That low vice curiosity.
That man has advanced far in the study of
morals who has mastered the difference between pride and vanity.
That man is always happy who is in the presence of something which he cannot know to the full, which he is always going on to know.
That man is an ill husband of his honour that entereth into any action, the failing wherein may disgrace him more than the carrying of it through can honour him.
That man is learned who reduceth his learning to practice.
That man is little to be envied whose patriotism would not gain force upon the plain of Marathon, or whose piety would not grow warmer among the ruins of Iona.
That man lives twice that lives the first life
well.
That man may last, but never lives, / Who much receives but nothing gives; / Whom none can love, whom none can thank--/ Creation's blot, creation's blank.
That man that hath a tongue, I say, is no man, / If with his tongue he cannot win a woman.
That man will never be a perfect gentleman who lives only with gentlemen. To be a man of the world we must view that world in every grade and in every perspective.
That Mirabeau understood how to act with others, and by others--this was his genius, this was his originality, this was his greatness.
That must be true which all men say.
That nation is in the enjoyment of liberty which stands by its own strength, and does not depend on the will of another.
That net that holds no great, takes little fish.
That one man should die ignorant who had capacity for knowledge, this I call tragedy.
That one will not, another will.
That philanthropy has surely a flaw in it which
cannot sympathise with the oppressor equally as with the oppressed.
That rich man is great who thinketh not himself great because he is rich; the proud man (who is the poor man) braggeth outwardly but beggeth inwardly; he is blown up, but not full.
That single effort by which we stop short in the down-hill path to perdition is of itself a greater exertion of virtue than a hundred acts of justice.
That souls which are created for one another so seldom find each other and are generally divided, that in the moments of happiest union least recognise each other--that is a sad riddle!
That State must sooner or later perish where the majority triumphs and unintelligence

That state of life is alone suitable to a man in
which and for which he was born, and he who is not led abroad by great objects is far happier at home.
That strain again! It had a dying fall: / Oh, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound / That breathes upon a bank of violets, / Giving and stealing odour!
That suit is best that best fits me.
That that comes of a hen will scrape.
That that is, is.
That the voice of the common people is the voice
of God, is as full of falsehood as commonness. For who sees not that those black-mouthed hounds, upon the mere scent of opinion, as freely spend their mouths in hunting counter, or, like Actæon's dogs, in chasing an innocent man to death, as if they followed the chase of truth itself, in a fresh scent?
That thee is sent receive in buxomness: / The wrestling of this world asketh a fall. / Here is no home, here is but wilderness. / Forth, pilgrim, forth--on, best out of thy stall. / Look up on high, and thank the God of all.
That thought I regard as true which is fruitful to myself, which is connected with the rest of my thoughts, and at the same time helps me on. Now it is not only possible, but natural, that such a thought should not connect itself with the mind of another, nor help him on ... consequently he will regard it as false. Once we are thoroughly convinced of this, we shall never enter upon controversies.
That ugly treason of mistrust.
That unity which has not its origin in the multitude is tyranny.
That very law which moulds a tear, / And bids
it trickle from its source; / That law preserves the earth a sphere, / And guides the planets in their course.
That vice has often proved an emancipator of the mind is one of the most humiliating, but also one of the most unquestionable, facts in history.
That virtue which requires to be ever guarded is scarcely worth the sentinel.
That voluntary debility, which modern language is content to term indolence, will, if it is not counteracted by resolution, render in time the strongest faculties lifeless, and turn the flame to the smoke of virtue.
That warrior on his strong war-horse, fire flashes through his eyes; force dwells in his arm and heart; but warrior and war-horse are a vision; a revealed force, nothing more. Stately they tread the earth, as if it were firm substance. Fool! the earth is but a film; it cracks in twain, and warrior and war-horse sink beyond plummet's sounding.
That we devote ourselves to God is seen / In
living just as though no God there were.
That we shall die, we know; 'tis but the time / And drawing days out, that men stand upon.
That we should find our national existence depend on selling manufactured cotton at a farthing an ell cheaper than any other people, is a most narrow stand for a great nation to base itself on.
That we would do, / We should do when we would; for this "would" changes, / And hath abatements and delays as many / As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents; / And then this "should" is like a spendthrift's sigh, / That hurts by easing.
That were but a sorry art which could be comprehended all at once; the last point of which could be seen by one just entering its precincts.
That which builds is better than that which is
built.
That which can be done with perfect convenience and without loss, is not always the thing that most needs to be done, or which we are most imperatively required to do.
That which each man can do best, not but his Maker can teach him.
That which God writes on thy forehead thou wilt come to.
That which hath been is now; and that which is to be hath already been.
That which I crave may everywhere be had, /
With me I bring the one thing needful--love.
That which in mean men we entitle patience, / Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts.
That which, intellectually considered, we call Reason, considered in relation to nature we call Spirit.
That which is crooked cannot be made straight: and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.
That which is good to take is good to keep.
That which is in the midst of fools is made
known.
That which is not allotted the hand cannot reach, and what is allotted will find you wherever you may be.
That which is past is gone and irrevocable, and wise men have enough to do with things present and to come; therefore they do but trifle with themselves that labour in past matters.
That which is possible is ever possible.
That which is truly and indeed characteristic of the man is known only to God.
That which makes men happy is activity
which, first producing what is good, soon changes evil itself into good by power working in a god-like manner.
That which one least anticipates soonest
comes to pass.
That which produces and maintains cheerfulness is nothing but activity.
That which proves too much proves nothing.
That which seems to be wealth may in verity be only the gilded index of far-reaching ruin; a wrecker's handful of coin gleaned from the beach to which he has beguiled an argosy.
That which the droning world, chained to appearances, will not allow the realist to say in his own words, it will suffer him to say in proverbs without contradiction.
That which the sun doth not now see will be
visible when the sun is out, and the stars are fallen from heaven.
That which two will takes effect.
That which upholdeth him, that thee upholds--His honour.
That which was bitter to endure may be sweet to remember.
That which we do not believe we cannot adequately say, though we may repeat the words never so often.
That which we have we prize not to the
worth; / But being lacked and lost, why then we rake its value.
That which we may live without we need not much covet.
That which will not be butter must be made into cheese.
That which will not be spun, let it not come between the spindle and the distaff.
That woman is despicable who, having children, ever feels ennui.
That wretchedness which fate has rendered
voiceless and tuneless is not the least wretched, but the most.
That's a lee wi' a lid on, / And a brass handle to tak ho'd on.
That's my good that does me good.
That's the best gown that goes up and down the house.
That's the humour of it.
That's what a man wants in a wife, mostly:
he wants to make sure o' one fool as'll tell him he's wise. But there's some men can do wi'out that--they think so much o' themselves a'ready--an' that's how it is there's old bachelors.
The abandoning of some lower end in obedience to a higher aim is often made the very condition of securing the lower one.
The abiding city and post at which we can live and die is still ahead of us, it would appear.
The absent one is an ideal person; those who are present seem to one another to be quite commonplace. It is a silly thing that the ideal is, as it were, ousted by the real; that may be the reason why to the moderns their ideal only manifests itself in longing.
The absent party is still faulty.
The accepted and betrothed lover has lost the
wildest charms of his maiden in her acceptance of him. She was heaven whilst he pursued her as a star--she cannot be heaven if she stoops to such a one as he.
The accusing spirit, which flew up to heaven's chancery with the oath, blushed as he gave it in; and the recording angel, as he wrote it down, dropped a tear upon the word and blotted it out for ever.
The acknowledgment of our weakness is the first step towards repairing our loss.
The actual well seen is the ideal.
The advice that is wanted is commonly unwelcome; that which is not wanted is evidently impertinent.
The affection of young ladies is of as rapid
growth as Jack's beanstalk, and reaches up to the sky in a night.
The afflictions of earth exalt the spirit and lift the soul to God.
The age made no sign when Shakespeare, its noblest son, passed away.
The age of chivalry is gone. That of sophisters, economists, and calculators has succeeded; and the glory of Europe is extinguished for ever.
The age of curiosity, like that of chivalry, is ended, properly speaking, gone. Yet perhaps only gone to sleep.
The age of great men is going; the epoch of
the anthill, of life in multiplicity, is beginning.
The age of miracles past! The age of miracles is for ever here.
The ages of greatest public spirit are not always eminent for private virtue.
The agnosticism of doubt is as far from the agnosticism of devotion as blindness for want of vision from blindness through excess of light.
The aim of all morality, truly conceived, is to furnish men with a standard of action and a motive to work by, which shall not intensify each man's selfishness, but raise him ever more and more above it.
The aim of education should be to teach us
rather how to think than what to think.
The aim of life is work, or there is no aim at all.
The aim of the legislator should be, not truth, but expediency.
The air seems nimble with the glad, / Quaint fancies of our childhood dear.
The alchemists in their search for gold discovered other things of greater value.
The all in all of faith is
knowledge
The almighty dollar.
The alpha and omega of Socialism is the transmutation of private competing capital into united collective capital.
The amateur, however weak may be his efforts at imitation, need not be discouraged, ... for one advances to an idea the more surely and steadily the more accurately and precisely he considers individual objects. Only it will not do to measure one's self with artists; every one must go on in his own style.
The ambitious are ever followed by adulation, for such alone receive most pleasure from flattery.
The amount of intellect necessary to please us
is a most accurate measure of the amount of intellect we have ourselves.
The ancient Spartan custom of killing weak-bodied children is not much crueller than that of propagating weak-minded ones.
The ancients tell us what is best; but we must learn of the moderns what is fittest.
The anger of a strong man can always bide its time.
The animal is capable of enjoyment, only man is capable of serenity of mind and gladness of heart.
The animals look for man's intentions right
into his eyes. Even a rat, when you hunt him and bring him to bay, looks you in the eye.
The apparel oft proclaims the man.
The apprehension and representation of what is individual is the very life of art.
The apprehension of the good / Gives but the greater feeling to the worse.
The arch-enemy is the arch-stupid.
The archer who overshoots the mark misses,
as well as he that falls short of it.
The argument all bare is of more worth / Than when it hath my added praise beside.
The army is a good book to open to study human life.
The army is a school in which the niggardly become generous and the generous prodigal.
The arrows of sarcasm are barbed with contempt.... It is the sneer in the satire or the ridicule that galls or wounds.
The art of exalting lowliness and giving greatness
to little things is one of the noblest functions of genius.
The art of living is like every other art; only the capacity is born with us; it must be learned and practised with incessant care.
The art of pleasing is the art of deceiving.
The art was his to break vexations with a ready jest.
The art which is produced hastily will also perish hastily.
The artist belongs to his work, not the work
to the artist.
The artist is the son of his age; but pity for him if he is its pupil, or even its favourite.
The artist must conceive with warmth
and execute with c
The artist stands higher than the art, higher than the object: he uses art for his own purposes, and deals with the object after his own fashion.
The artist's vocation is to send light into the depths of the human heart.
The arts of deceit and cunning do continually
grow weaker, and less effectual and serviceable to them that use them.
The astonishing intellect that occupies itself in splitting hairs, and not in twisting some kind of cordage and effectual draught tackle to take the road with, is not to me the most astonishing of intellects. I want twisted cordage, steady pulling, and a peaceable bass tone of voice; not split hairs, hysterical spasmodics, and treble.
The Atlantic Ocean beat Mrs. Partington. She was excellent at a slop or a puddle, but she should not have meddled with a tempest.
The atmosphere of moral sentiment is a region of grandeur which reduces all material magnificence to toys, yet opens to every wretch that has reason the doors of the universe.
The attainment of a truer and truer aristocracy, or government again by the Best,--all that democracy ever meant lies there.
The attempt, and not the deed, / Confounds us.
The attraction of love is in an inverse proportion to the attraction of the Newtonian philosophy.
The author is often obscure to readers because, as has been said, he proceeds from the thought to the expression, whereas they proceed from the expression to the thought.
The awful shadow of some unseen Power / Floats, though unseen, among us.
The axe of intemperance has lopped off his green boughs and left him a withered trunk.
The axis of the earth sticks out visibly through
the centre of each and every town or city.
The back of one door is the face of another.
The back-door robs the house.
The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways.
The bad fortune of the good turns their faces up to heaven; and the good fortune of the bad bows their heads down to the earth.
The bad
also the bad against him.
The barrenest of mortals is the sentimentalist.
The basest thought about man is that he has no spiritual nature; and the foolishest, that he has, or should have, no animal nature.
The basis of good manners is self-reliance.
The battle of belief against unbelief is the never-ending battle.
The beams of joy are made hotter by reflection.
The bearers of the thyrsus
are ma

The bearing and the training of a child is
woman's wisdom.
The beaten road is the safest.
The beautiful is a manifestation of secret laws of nature, which, but for its appearance, had been for ever concealed from us.
The beautiful is higher than the good; the beautiful includes in it the good.
The beautiful is like sunshine to the world; the beautiful lives for ever.
The beautiful rests on the foundation of the
necessary.
The beggar is never out of the fashion, or limpeth awkwardly behind it.
The beggar is not expected to become bail or surety for any one.
The beggar is not required to put on court mourning.
The beggar is the only free man in the universe.
The beggar is the only man in the universe
who is not obliged to study appearances.
The beggar weareth all colours, fearing none.
The beggar's costume hath undergone less change than the Quaker's.
The beginning, and very nearly the end, of bodily education for a girl, is to make sure that she can stand and sit upright; the ankle vertical, and firm as a marble shaft; the waist elastic as a reed, and as unfatiguable.
The beginning of all good law, and nearly the end of it, is that every man shall do good work for his bread, and that every man shall have good bread for his work.
The beginning of all temptations and wickedness
is the fickleness of our own minds and want of trust in God.
The beginning of creation
is light. Till the eye have vision, the whole members are in bonds.
The beginning of inquiry is disease.
The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water: therefore leave off contention before it be meddled with.
 (_i.e._ sym
The being whose strength exceeds its necessities
is strong; the being whose necessities exceed its strength is feeble.
The bell strikes one. We take no note of time / But for its loss.
The belly is chains to the hands and fetters to the feet. He who is a slave to his belly seldom worships God.
The beloved of the Almighty are the rich who have the humility of the poor, and the poor who have the magnanimity of the rich.
The benefactors of mankind are those who grumble to the best purpose. Grumbling has raised man from the condition of the gorilla to that of the judge on the bench of justice.
The benevolent heart will not solicit, but command
our reverence and applause.
The benevolent person is always by preference busy on the essentially bad.
The best advice is, Follow good advice and hold old age in highest honour.
The best architecture is the expression of the mind of manhood by the hands of childhood.
The best courages are but beams of the Almighty.
The best effect of any book is that it excites
the reader to self-activity.
The best fish swim near the bottom.
The best friends in the world may differ sometimes.
The best gifts find the fewest admirers, and most men mistake the bad for the good.
The best government is that which teaches us to govern ourselves.
The best independence is to have something to
do, and something that can be done, and done most perfectly in solitude.
The best is best cheap.
The best is but in season best.
The best is not to be explained by words.
The best laid schemes o' mice an' men / Gang aft a-gley, / And lea'e us naught but grief and pain / For promised joy.
The best loneliness is when no human eye has
rested on our face for a whole day.
The best may slip, and the most cautious fall;/ He's more than mortal that ne'er err'd at all.
The best mirror is an old friend.
The best of angels do not live in community, but by themselves.
The best of lessons, for a good many people, would be to listen at a keyhole. It is a pity for such that the practice is dishonourable.
The best of men/ That e'er wore earth about
him was a sufferer; / A soft, meek, patient, humble, tranquil spirit; / The first true gentleman that ever breathed.
The best of the sport is to do the deed and say nothing.
The best part of our knowledge is that which teaches us where knowledge leaves off and ignorance begins.
The best path through life is the highway.
The best portraits are those in which there is a slight mixture of caricature.
The best preservative to keep the mind in
health is the faithful admonition of a friend.
The best remedy against an ill man is much ground between both.
The best rules to form a young man are, to talk little, to hear much, to reflect alone upon what has passed in company, to distrust one's own opinions, and value others' that deserve it.
The best self-forgetfulness is to look at the things of the world with attention and love.
The best son is not enough a son.
The best, the only correct actions are those which demand no explanation and no apology.
The best thing I know between France and England is the sea.
The best thing which we derive from history
is the enthusiasm which it raises in us.
The best things are worst to come by.
The best use of money is to pay debts.
The best way to come to truth is to examine things as they really are, and not to conclude they are, as we have been taught by others to imagine.
The best way to make the audience laugh is by first laughing yourself.
The best way to please one half of the world is
not to mind what the other half says.
The best work in the world is done on the quiet.
The best work never was, nor ever will be, done for money at all.
The best works, and of greatest merit for the public, have proceeded from unmarried or childless men, which, both in affection and means, have married and endowed the public.
The betrayer is the murderer.
The better a man is morally, the less conscious
he is of his virtues. The greater the artist, the more aware he must be of his shortcomings.
The better day the better deed.
The better I know men the more I admire dogs.
The better part of valour is discretion.
The better you understand yourself, the less cause you will find to love yourself.
The Bible contains many truths as yet undiscovered.
The Bible contains more true sublimity, more exquisite beauty, more pure morality, more important history, and finer strains of poetry and eloquence than can be collected from all other books, in whatever age or language they have been written.
(The Bible) contains plain teaching for men of every rank of soul and state of life, which so far as they honestly and implicitly obey, they will be happy and innocent to the utmost powers of their nature, and capable of victory over all adversities, whether of temptation or pain.
The Bible is the great family chronicle of the Jews.
The Bible of a nation, the practically credited God's message to a nation, is, beyond all else, the authentic biography of its heroic souls. This is the real record of the appearances of God in the history of a nation; this, which all men to the marrow of their bones can believe, and which teaches all men what the nature of this universe, when you go to work in it, really is.
The Bible tells us what Christian graces are;
but it is in the struggle of life that we are to find them.
The biography of a nation embraces all its works. No trifle is to be neglected. A mouldering medal is a letter of twenty centuries.
The bird of wisdom flies low, and seeks her food under hedges; the eagle himself would be starved if he always soared aloft and against the sun.
The birds without barn or storehouse are fed: / From them let us learn to trust for our bread.
The birth of a child is the imprisonment of a soul.
The birth of a golden deer is impossible.
The bishop has set his foot in it
The biter is often bit.
The blanks as well as the prizes must be drawn in the cheating lottery of life.
The blast that blows loudest is soon overblown.
The blaze of reputation cannot be blown out,
but it often dies in the socket.
The blessed work of helping the world forward does not wait to be done by perfect men.
The blessing of the Lord, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it.
The blind man bears the lame, and onward hies, / Made right by lending feet and borrowing eyes.
The block of granite, which was an obstacle in the pathway of the weak, becomes a stepping-stone in the pathway of the strong.
The blood more stirs / To rouse a lion than to
start a hare.
The blood of man should never be shed but to redeem the blood of man. It is well shed for our family, for our friends, for our God, for our country, for our kind. The rest is vanity, the rest is crime.
The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church.
The blue-bird carries the sky on his back.
The blue of heaven is larger than the cloud.
The blush is Nature's alarm at the approach of
sin, and her testimony to the dignity of virtue.
The body of a sensualist is the coffin of a dead soul.
The body of Christ is wherever human bodies are, and he who has any bitterness against his brother is always committing sacrilege.
The book of Nature is the book of Fate.
The bookful blockhead, ignorantly read, / With loads of learned lumber in his head.
The books which help you most are those which make you think the most.
The borrower runs in his own debt.
The bough that is dead shall be cut away for the sake of the tree itself. Let the Conservatism that would preserve the tree, cut it away.
The bounds of a man's knowledge are easily concealed if he has but prudence.
The boy stands astonished; his impressions
guide him; he learns sportfully; seriousness steals on him by surprise.
The boy's story is the best that is ever told.
The boy's will is the wind's will, / And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts.
The brain may devise laws for the blood; but a hot temper leaps o'er a cold decree.
The brain-women never interest us like the heart-women; white roses please less than red.
The brave man thinks of himself last of all.
The bravest are the tenderest, / The loving are the daring.
The breach of custom / Is breach of all.
The breeding of a man makes him courageous by instinct, true by instinct, loving by instinct, as a dog is; and therefore, felicitously above, or below (whichever you like to call it), all questions of philosophy and divinity.
The British nation--and I include in it the Scottish nation--has produced a finer set of men than you will find it possible to get anywhere else in this world.
The bud may have a bitter taste, / But sweet
will be the flower.
The buke o' May-bees is very braid.
The burden one likes is cheerfully borne.
The burning of a little straw may hide the stars of the sky; but the stars are there, and will reappear.
The burst of new light, by its suddenness, always appears inimical to the unprepared heart.
The busiest of living agents are certain dead
men's thoughts.
The calling of a man's self to a strict account is a medicine sometimes too piercing and corrosive; reading good books of morality is a little flat and dead ... but the best receipt (best to work, and best to take) is the admonition of a friend.
The camomile, the more it is trodden on, the faster it grows; yet youth, the more it is wasted, the sooner it wears.
The canary-bird sings the sweeter the longer it has been trained in a darkened cage.
The cancer of jealousy on the breast can never wholly be cut out, if I am to believe great masters of the healing art.
The canker galls the infants of the spring /
Too oft before their buttons are disclosed, / And in the morn and liquid dew of youth / Contagious blastments are most imminent.
The capacity of apprehending what is high is very rare; and therefore, in common life a man does well to keep such things for himself, and only to give out so much as is needful to have some advantage against others.
The captive bands may chain the hands, / But love enslaves the man.
The Carlyles were men who lavished their heart and conscience upon their work; they builded themselves, their days, their thoughts and sorrows, into their houses; they leavened the soil with the sweat of their rugged brows.
The casting away things profitable for the maintenance of man's life is an unthankful abuse of the fruits of God's good providence towards mankind.
The castle which Conservatism is set to defend
is the actual state of things, good and bad.
The cat shuts its eyes when stealing the cream.
The cause which pleased the gods has in the end to please Cato also.
The centuries are all lineal children of one another; and often, in the portrait of early grandfathers, this and the other enigmatic feature of the newest grandson will disclose itself, to mutual elucidation.
The centuries are conspirators against the sanity and authority of the soul.
The certain way to be cheated is to fancy one's
self more cunning than others.
The chains of habit are generally too small to be felt till they are too strong to be broken.
The champion true / Loves victory more when, dim in view, / He sees her glories gild afar / The dusky edge of stubborn war, / Than if th' untrodden bloodless field / The harvest of her laurels yield.
The change of a man's self is a very laborious undertaking.
The character of a nation is not to be learned from its fine folks.
The character of the person that commends
you is to be considered before you set a value on his esteem. The wise man applauds him whom he thinks most virtuous; the rest of the world, him who is most wealthy.
The character of the true philosopher is to hope all things not unreasonable.
The characteristic mark of minds
 (_Unmittelbarkeit_) 
 (_vo
 (_Unmittelbarkeit_)  own thinking.
The characteristic of a philosopher is that he looks to himself for all help or harm.
The characteristic of Chaucer is intensity; of Spencer, remoteness; of Milton, elevation: of Shakespeare, everything.
The chariest maid is prodigal enough / If she
unmask her beauty to the moon.
The charitable give out at the door, and God puts in at the window.
The charity that thinketh no evil trusts in God and trusts in man.
The chaste mind, like a polished plane, may admit foul thoughts, without receiving their tincture.
The cheap swearer through his open sluice / Lets his soul run for nought.
The cheapness of man is every day's tragedy.
The chief glory of every people arises from its
authors.
The chief of all the curses of this unhappy age is the universal gabble of its fools, and of the flocks that follow them, rendering the quiet voices of the wise of all past time inaudible.
The chief requisites for a courtier are a flexible conscience and an inflexible politeness.
The chief value and virtue of money consists in its having power over human beings; a power which is attainable by other means than by money.
The child is father of the man.
The child is not to be educated for the present,
but for the remote future, and often in opposition to the immediate future.
The child who desires education will be bettered by it; the child who dislikes it, only disgraced.
The child's murmuring is more and is less than words; there are no notes, and yet it is a song; there are no syllables, and yet it is language.... This poor stammering is a compound of what the child said when it was an angel, and of what it will say when it becomes a man.
The childhood shows the man / As morning shows the day.
The children of others we never love so much as our own; error, our own child, is so near our heart.
The choicest thing this world has for a man is
affection.
The Christian doctrine, that doctrine of Humility, in all senses godlike, and the parent of all godlike virtue, is not superior, or inferior, or equal to any doctrine of Socrates or Thales, being of a totally different nature; differing from these as a perfect ideal poem does from a correct computation in arithmetic.
The Christian religion having once appeared, cannot again vanish; having once assumed its divine shape, can be subject to no dissolution.
The Christian religion is an inspiration and life--God's life breathed into a man and breathed through a man.
The Christian religion is especially remarkable, as it so decidedly lays claim to mere goodwill in man, to his essential temper, and values this independently of all culture and manifestation. It stands in opposition to science and art, and properly to enjoyment.
The Christian religion, often enough dismembered
and scattered abroad, will ever in the end again gather itself together at the foot of the cross.
The Christian religion, once here, cannot again pass away; in one or the other form, it will endure through all time. As in Scripture, so also in the heart of man, it is written, "The gates of hell shall not prevail against it."
The Christianity that cannot get on without a minimum of four thousand five hundred, will give place to something better that can.
The Church is a mere organisation to help a man to fulfil his duties; it is not the source from whence those duties sprung.
The Church is the working recognised union of those who by wise teaching guide the souls of men.
The Church! Touching the earth with one
small point (the event, viz., at Bethlehem of the year one); springing out of one small seed-grain, rising out therefrom, ever higher, ever broader, high as the heaven itself, broad till it overshadow the whole visible heaven and earth, and no star can be seen but through it. From such a seed-grain so has it grown; planted in the reverences and sacred opulences of the soul of mankind; fed continually by all the noblenesses of forty generations of man. The world-tree of the nations for so long!
The Churchmen fain would kill their Church, / As the Churches have killed their Christ.
The circle of noble-minded people is the most precious of all that I have won.
The city does not take away, neither does the country give, solitude: solitude is within us.
The city is recruited from the country.
The civil guest / Will no more talk all, than
eat all the feast.
The civilised man lives not in wheeled houses. He builds stone castles, plants lands, makes life-long marriage contracts; has long-dated, hundred-fold possessions, not to be valued in the money-market; has pedigrees, libraries, law-codes; has memories and hopes, even for this earth, that reach over thousands of years.
The civilised nation consists broadly of mob, money-collecting machine, and capitalist; and when the mob wishes to spend money for any purpose, it sets its money-collecting machine to borrow the money it needs from the capitalist, who lends it on condition of taxing the mob generation after generation.
The civilised savage
The Classical is healthy, the Romantic sickly.
The clergy are at present divided into three
sections: an immense body who are ignorant; a small proportion who know and are silent; and a minute minority who know and speak according to their knowledge.
The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces, / The solemn temples, the great globe itself, / Yea, all that it inherit, shall dissolve; / And, like this insubstantial pageant faded, / Leave not a rack behind.
The cloud incense of the altar hides / The true form of the God who there abides.
The clouds never pass against the wind.
The clouds that gather round the setting sun / Do take a sober colouring from an eye / That hath kept watch o'er man's mortality.
The clouds that wrap the setting sun / ... Why, as we watch their floating wreath, / Seem they the breath of life to breathe? / To Fancy's eye their motions prove / They mantle round the sun for love.
The clouds treat the sea as if it were a mill-pond
or a spring-run, too insignificant to make any exceptions to.
The cock, that is the trumpet of the morn, / Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat / Awake the god of day.
The coin that is most current among mankind is flattery; the only benefit of which is that by hearing what we are not we may be instructed what we ought to be.
The combined arts appear to me like a family of sisters, of whom the greater part were inclined to good company, but one was light-headed, and desirous to appropriate and squander the whole goods and chattels of the household--the theatre is this wasteful sister.
The comic and the tragic lie close together, inseparable, like light and shadow.
The command "thou shalt" is in all circumstances
a hard one, unless it is softened down by the adjunct "for that which 'thou shalt' is just the same as that which rationally thou also willest."
The commencement of atonement is / The sense of its necessity.
The common crowd but see the gloom / Of wayward deeds and fitting doom; / The close observer can espy / A noble soul and lineage high.
The common fluency of speech in many men and most women is owing to a scarcity of matter and a scarcity of words.
The common "keeping up appearances" of society is a mere selfish struggle of the vain with the vain.
The company of fools may at first make us
smile, but at last never fails of rendering us melancholy.
The complete poet must have a heart in his brain or a brain in his heart.
The complete spiritualisation of the animal element in nature is the task of our species.
The conceived is never food save to the mind that conceives.
The concessions of the weak are the concessions of fear.
The condition of the great body of the people in
a country is the condition of the country itself.
The condition of the most fascinated
enthusiast is to be preferred to him who, from sheer fear of error, dares in the end no longer to affirm or deny.
The conditions necessary for the arts of men are the best for their souls and bodies.
The confidant of my vices is my master, though he were my valet.
The conflict of the old, the existent, and the persistent, with development, improvement, and transfigurment is always the same. Out of every arrangement arises at last pedantry; to get rid of this latter the former is destroyed, and some time must elapse before we become aware that order must be re-established.
The conscience is the inviolable asylum of the
liberty of man.
The conscience is the most elastic material in the world. To-day you cannot stretch it over a mole-hill, to-morrow it hides a mountain.
The conscience of the man who is given over to his passions is like the voice of the shipwrecked mariner overwhelmed by the tempest.
The conscious utterance of thought by speech or action, to any end, is art.
The conscious water saw its god and blushed.
The consolation which is derived from truth,
if any there be, is solid and durable; that which may be derived from error must be, like its original, fallacious and fugitive.
The contagion of crime is like that of the plague.
The contingent facts of history can never become the proof of the truths of reason.
The conversation of a friend is a powerful alleviator of the fatigue of walking.
The core will come to the surface.
The cormorant Oblivion swallows up / The
carcases that Time has made his prey.
The corpse is not the whole animal; there is still something that appertains to it, still a corner-stone, and in this case, as in every other, a very chief corner-stone--life, the spirit that makes everything beautiful.
The counsel thou wouldst have another keep, first keep thyself.
The country where the entire people is, or even once has been, laid hold of, filled to the heart with an infinite religious idea, has "made a step from which it cannot retrograde."
The courage
The courage that dares only die is on the
whole no sublime affair.... The courage we desire and prize is not the courage to die decently, but to live manfully.
The course of nature is the art of God.
The course of Nature's phases, on this our little fraction of a planet, is partially known to us; but who knows what deeper courses these depend on; what infinitely larger cycle
our little epicycle 
The course of prayer who knows?
The course of scoundrelism, any more than that of true love, never did run smooth.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
The court does not render a man contented, but it prevents his being so elsewhere.
The court is like a palace of marble; it is composed of people very hard and very polished.
The court, nor cart, I like, nor loathe; / Extremes are counted worst of all: / The golden mean betwixt them both / Doth surest sit, and fears no fall.
The court of the past differs from all living
aristocracy in this; it is open to labour and to merit, but to nothing else.
The covetous man heaps up riches, not to enjoy them, but to have them.
The covetous man never has money, and the prodigal will have none shortly.
The coxcomb is a fool of parts, a flatterer, a knave of parts.
The craftiest wiles are too short and ragged a cloak to cover a bad heart.
The crafty man is always in danger; and
when he thinks he walks in the dark, all his pretences are so transparent, that he that runs may read them.
The creation of a thousand forests is in one acorn; and Egypt, Greece, Rome, Gaul, Britain, America, lie folded already in the first man.
The credit of advancing science has always been due to individuals, never to the age.
The creed of the true saint is to make the best of life, and make the most of it.
The crickets sing, and man's o'er-laboured sense / Repairs itself by rest.
The cross is the invincible sanctuary of the
humble.
The cross of Christ is the key of Paradise; the weak man's staff; the convert's convoy; the upright man's perfection; the soul and body's health; the prevention of all evil, and the procurer of all good.
The cross was the fitting close of a life of rejection, scorn, and defeat.
The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark / When neither is attended, and I think / The nightingale, if she should sing by day, / when every goose is cackling, would be thought / No better a musician than the wren.
The crowd ... if they find / Some stain or blemish in a name of note, / Not grieving that their greatest are so small, / Inflate themselves with some insane delight, / And judge all Nature from her feet of clay, / Without the will to lift their eyes, and see / Her godlike head crown'd with spiritual fire / And touching other worlds.
The cruelty of the affectionate is more dreadful
than that of the hardy.
The cry of the God-forsaken is from the heart of God himself.
The cuffs and thumps with which fate, our lady-loves, our friends and foes, put us to the proof, in the mind of a good and resolute man, vanish into air.
The cunning workman never doth refuse / The meanest tool that he may chance to use.
The cup of life which God offers to our lips is not always sweet; ... but, sweet or bitter, it is ours to drink it without murmur or demur.
The cups that cheer, but not inebriate.
The cure for false theology is mother wit.
The curfew tolls the knell of parting day, / The lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea, / The ploughman homeward plods his weary way, / And leaves the world to darkness and to me.
The curiosity of knowing things has been given to man for a scourge.
The curious unthrift makes his clothes too wide, / And spares himself, but would his tailor chide.
The current that with gentle murmur glides, /
Thou know'st, being stopp'd, impatiently doth rage.
The curtains of yesterday drop down, the curtains of to-morrow roll up; but yesterday and to-morrow both are. Pierce into the Time-element, glance into the Eternal.
The cut
talent, so does the colour betoken temper and heart.
The cynic is one who never sees a good quality in a man, and never fails to see a bad one.
The danger of dangers is illusion.
The danger past and God forgotten.
The dark in soul see in the universe their own shadow; the shattered spirit can only reflect external beauty, in form as untrue and broken as itself.
The darkest day, live till to-morrow, will have passed away.
The darkest hour is nearest the dawn.
The day is longer than the brae; we'll be at the top yet.
The day of days ... is the day on which the
inward eye opens to the unity of things, to the omnipresence of law--sees that what is must be, and ought to be, or is the best.
The day wasted on others is not wasted on one's self.
The days are too short even for love, how can there ever be time for quarrelling?
The dead do not need us; but for ever and for evermore we need them.
The dead letter of religion must own itself dead, and drop piecemeal into dust, if the living spirit of religion, freed from its charnel-house, is to arise on us, new born of Heaven, and with new healing under its wings.
The decline of literature indicates the decline
of the nation. The two keep pace in their downward tendency.
The deeper the sorrow, the less tongue hath it.
The deity works in the living, not in the dead; in the becoming and the changing, not in the become and the fixed.
The delight of the destroyer and denier is no pure delight, and must soon pass away.
The democrat is a young conservative; the conservative is an old democrat.
The demonic in music stands so high that no understanding can reach it, and an influence flows from it which masters all, and for which none can account.
The demonic is that which cannot be explained by reason or understanding, which is not in one's nature, yet to which it is subject.
The dependant is timid.
The depth of our despair measures what capability and height of claim we have to hope.
The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul.
The desire of a man is his kindness: and a poor man is better than a liar.
The desire of perfection is the worst disease that ever afflicted the human mind.
The desire of power in excess caused the
angels to fall; the desire of knowledge in excess caused man to fall; but in charity there is no excess, neither can man or angel come in danger by it.
The desire of the moth for the star, / Of the night for the morrow, / The devotion to something afar / From the sphere of our sorrow.
The desire of the slothful killeth him; for his hands refuse to labour.
The destiny of any nation at any given time depends on the opinions of its young men under five-and-twenty.
The destruction of the poor is their poverty.
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose! /
An evil soul producing holy witness / Is like a villain with a smiling cheek, / A goodly apple rotten at the heart.
The devil has a great advantage against us, inasmuch as he has a strong bastion and bulwark against us in our own flesh and blood.
The devil has his elect.
The devil hath power / To assume a pleasing shape.
The devil helps his servants for a season; but when they come once to a pinch, he leaves 'em in the lurch.
The devil is a busy bishop in his own diocese.
The devil is an ass.
The devil is an unfortunate who knows not what it is to love.
The devil is God's ape.
The devil knew not what he did when he made man politic; he crossed himself by it.
The devil lurks behind the cross.
The devil may get in by the keyhole, but the door won't let him out.
The devil taketh not lightly unto his working such as he findeth occupied in good works.
The devil tempts all other men, but idle men tempt the devil.
The devil tempts us not--'tis we tempt him, / Beckoning his skill with opportunity.
The devil was sick, the devil a monk would
be; / The devil was well, the devil a monk was he.
The dewdrop and the star shine sisterly, / Globing together in the common work.
The dictum that truth always triumphs over persecution is one of those pleasant falsehoods ... which all experience refutes. History teems with instances of truth put down by persecution. If not suppressed for ever, it may be thrown back for centuries.
The difference between Socrates and Jesus? The great Conscious; the immeasurably great Unconscious.
The difference between the great celebrities and the unknown nobodies is this, the former failed and went at it again, the latter gave up in despair.
The difficulty is not so great to die for a friend as
to find a friend worth dying for.
The difficulty is to teach the multitude that something can be both true and untrue at the same time.
The dignity of truth is lost with much protesting.
The dilettante takes the obscure for the profound, violence for vigour, the indefinite for the infinite, and the senseless for the supersensuous.
The disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his lord.
The discovery of what is true, and the practice
of that which is good, are the two most important objects of philosophy.
The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and it is his glory to pass over a transgression.
The disease of the mind leading to fatalist ruin is the concentration of man upon himself, whether his heavenly interests or his worldly interests, matters not; it is their being his own interests which makes the regard of them mortal.
The disease which afflicts bureaucratic governments, and which they usually die of, is routine.
The disease with which the human mind now labours is want of faith.
The dispute about religion and the practice of
it seldom go together.
The disputes of two of equal strength and fortune are worthy of attention; but not of two, the one great, the other humble.
The dissection of a sentence is as bad a way to the understanding of it, as the dissection of a beast to the biography of it.
The distances of nations are measured, not by seas, but by ignorances; and their divisions determined, not by dialects, but by enmities.
The distant landscape draws not nigh / For all our gazing.
The distant sounds of music, that catch new
sweetness as they vibrate through the long-drawn valley, are not more pleasing to the ear than the tidings of a far-distant friend.
The distinction between man and nature is, that man is a being becoming, and nature a being become.
The distinctive character of a child is to live always in the tangible present.
The distinguishing sign of slavery is to have a price and be bought for it.
The distinguishing trait of people accustomed to good society is a calm, imperturbable quiet, which pervades all their actions and habits.
The Divine mind is as visible in its full energy
of operation on every lowly bank and mouldering stone, as in the lifting of the pillars of heaven, and setting the foundations of the earth.
The divine power of the love, of which we cease not to sing and speak, is this, that it reproduces every moment the grand qualities of the beloved object, perfect in the smallest parts, embraced in the whole; it rests not either by day or by night, is ravished with its own work, wonders at its own stirring activity, finds the well-known always new, because it is every moment begotten anew in the sweetest of all occupations. In fact the image of the beloved one cannot become old, for every moment is the hour of its birth.
The divine state, "par excellence," is silence and repose.
The doctor sees all the weakness of mankind, the lawyer all the wickedness, the theologian all the stupidity.
The dog that fetches will carry.
The dog that starts the hare is as good as the
one that catches it.
The dog, to gain his private ends, / Went mad, and bit the man.
The dome of St. Peter's is great, yet is it but a foolish chip of an egg-shell compared with that star-fretted dome where Arcturus and Orion glance for ever, which latter, notwithstanding, no one looks at--because the architect was not a man.
The dome of thought, the palace of the soul.
The donkey means one thing and the driver another.
The doom of the old has long been pronounced
and irrevocable; the old has passed away; but, alas! the new appears not in its stead; the time is still in pangs of travail with the new. Man has walked by the light of conflagrations, and amid the sound of falling cities; and now there is darkness, and long watching till it be morning.
The door must either be shut or it must be open. I must either be natural or unnatural.
The dove found no rest for the sole of her foot.
The dread of censure is the death of genius.
The dread of something after death, / The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn / No traveller returns, puzzles the will; / And makes us rather bear those ills we have / Than fly to others that we know not of.
The dreamer is a madman quiescent, the
madman is a dreamer in action.
The dregs may stir themselves as they please; they fall back to the bottom by their own coarseness.
The dress of words, / Like to the Roman girl's enticing garb, / Should let the play of limb be seen through it, / And the round rising form.
The drunkard forfeits man, and doth divest / All worldly right, save what he hath by beast.
The dry light is ever the best.
The drying up a single tear has more / Of
honest fame than shedding seas of gore.
The dullest John Bull cannot with perfect complacency adore himself, except under the figure of Britannia or the British Lion.
The dust of controversy is but the falsehood flying off.
The dwarf behind his steam-engine may remove mountains, but no dwarf will hew them down with the pickaxe; and he must be a Titan that hurls them abroad with his arms.
The eagle suffers little birds to sing.
The earth hath bubbles, as the water has, /
And these are of them.
The earth is our workshop. We may not curse it; we are bound to sanctify it.
The earth is sown with pleasures, as the heavens are studded with stars, wherever the conditions of existence are unsophisticated.
The earth must supply man with the necessaries of life before he has leisure or inclination to pursue more refined enjoyments.
The earth, that's Nature's mother, is her tomb.
The earthen pot must keep clear of the brass
kettle.
The ebb'd man, ne'er loved till ne'er worth love, / Comes dear'd by being lack'd.
The echo of the nest-life, the voice of our modest, fairer, holier soul, is audible only in a sorrow-darkened bosom, as the nightingales warble when one veils their cage.
The effect of good music is not caused by its novelty; on the contrary, it strikes us more the more familiar we are with it.
The effect of righteousness
The effect of violent animosities between
parties has always been an indifference to the general welfare and honour of the state.
The efforts of him who contendeth with one stronger than himself are as feeble as the exertions of an insect's wings.
The elect are whosoever will, and the non-elect whosoever won't.
The electric telegraph will never be a substitute for the face of a man, with his soul in it, encouraging another man to be brave and true.
The element of water moistens the earth, but blood flies upwards and bedews the heavens.
The elements of poetry lie in natural objects, in the vicissitudes of human life, in the emotions of the human heart, and the relations of man to man.
The emphasis of facts and persons has nothing to do with time.
The empire of woman is an empire of softness,
of address, of complacency. Her commands are caresses, her menaces are tears.
The empty vessel makes the greatest sound.
The end crowns all, / And that old common arbitrator, Time, / Will one day end it.
Troil. and Cress.
The end of all opposition is negation, and negation is nothing.
The end of all right education of a woman is to make her love her home better than any other place; that she should as seldom leave it as a queen her queendom; nor ever feel entirely at rest but within its threshold.
The end of doubt is the beginning of repose.
The end of labour is to gain leisure.
The end of man is an action, not a thought, though it were the noblest.
The end of man is at no moment a pleasure, but a performance; and life always and only the continual fulfilment of a worthy purpose with a will.
The end we aim at must be known before the way.
The enemy is more easily repulsed if we never
suffer him to get within us, but, upon the very first approach, draw up our forces and fight him without the gate.
"The English," says Bishop Sprat, "have too much bravery to be derided, and too much virtue and honour to mock others."
The ennobling difference between one man and another--between one animal and another--is precisely this, that one feels more than another.
The entire grace, happiness, and virtue of
life depend on his contentment in doing what he can dutifully, and in staying where he is peaceably.
The entire object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things, but enjoy the right things.
The entire system of things gets represented
in every particle.
The entire vitality of art depends upon its having for object either to state a true thing or adorn a serviceable one.
The envied have a brilliant fate; / Pity is given where griefs are great.
The envious man waxeth lean with the fatness of his neighbours.
The envious will die, but envy never.
The errors of a great mind are more edifying
than the truths of a little.
The errors of a wise man are literally more instructive than the truths of a fool. For the wise man travels in lofty, far-seeing regions; the fool in low-lying, high-fenced lanes; retracing the footsteps of the former, to discover where he deviated, whole provinces of the universe are laid open to us; in the path of the latter, granting even that he have not deviated at all, little is laid open to us but two wheel-ruts and two hedges.
The errors of a wise man make your rule / Rather than the perfections of a fool.
The errors of woman spring almost always from her faith in the good or her confidence in the true.
The errors of young men are the ruin of business; but the errors of aged men amount to but this, that more might have been done, or sooner.
The essence of a lie is in deception, not in
words.
The essence of affectation is that it be assumed; the character is, as it were, forcibly crushed into some foreign mould, in the hope of being thereby re-shaped and beautified; and the unhappy man persuades himself he has become a new creature of wonderful symmetry, though every movement betrays not symmetry, but dislocation.
The essence of all government among good men is this, that it is mainly occupied in the production and recognition of human worth, and in the detection and extinction of human unworthiness.
The essence of all immorality, of sin, is the making self the centre to which we subordinate all other beings and interests.
The essence of all religion that was, and that will be, is to make men free.
The essence of all vulgarity lies in want of
sensation.
The essence of an aristocracy is to transfer the source of honour from the living to the dead, to make the merits of living men depend not so much upon their own character and actions as upon the actions and position of their ancestors.
The essence of aphorism is the compression of a mass of thought and observation into a single saying.
The essence of faith lies in this, a deep sense and conviction that in what we do, though it were single-handed, with all men standing aloof, and even saying nay to it, we have God and all his universe at our back.
The essence of friendship is entireness, a total magnanimity and trust.
The essence of greatness is the perception
that virtue is enough. Poverty is its ornament. It does not need plenty, and can very well abide its loss.
The essence of humour is sensibility, warm, tender, fellow-feeling with all forms of existence; and unless seasoned and purified by humour, sensibility is apt to run wild, will readily corrupt into disease, falsehood, or, in one word, sentimentality.
The essence of justice is mercy.
The essence of knowledge is, having it, to apply it; not having it, to confess your ignorance.
The essence of poetry is will and passion.
The essence of true nobility is neglect of self. Let the thought of self pass in, and the beauty of a great action is gone, like the bloom from a soiled flower.
 
The essence of wealth consists in its authority nominal wealth fail in this power, it fails in essence; in fact, ceases to be wealth at all. And since the essence of wealth consists in power over men, will it not follow that the nobler and the more in number the persons are over whom it has power, the greater the wealth.
The essence or peculiarity of man is to comprehend a whole.
The essential thing for all creatures is to be
made to do right.
The Eternal is no simulacrum; God is not only there, but here or nowhere,--in that life-breath of thine, in that act and thought of thine,--and thou wert wise to look to it.
The eternal stars shine out again, as soon as it is dark enough.
The eternity, before the world and after, is without our reach; but that little spot of ground which lies betwixt those two great oceans, this we are to cultivate.
The even and cheerful temper makes us pleasing to ourselves, to those with whom we converse, and to Him whom we were made to please.
The even-flow of constant cheerfulness
strengthens; while great excitements, driving us with fierce speed, both wreck the ship and end often in explosions.
The evening brings a' hame.
The evil that goeth out of thy mouth flieth into thy bosom.
The evil that men do lives after them; / The good is oft interréd with their bones.
The evil wound is cured, but not the evil name.
The ewe that will not hear her lamb when it
baes, will never answer a calf when it bleats.
The exacting a grateful acknowledgment is demanding a debt by which the creditor is not advantaged and the debtor pays with reluctance.
The example of good men is visible philosophy.
The excellent is rarely found, more rarely valued.
The exception proves the rule.
The excesses of our youth are draughts upon
our age, payable with interest about thirty years after date.
The expectation of the poor shall not perish for ever.
The experience of each new age requires a new confession, and the world seems always waiting for its poet.
The experience of suffering has been declared on the highest authority to be necessary to every poet who would touch the hearts of his fellow-creatures.
The express schoolmaster is not equal to much at present, while the unexpress, for good or for evil, is so busy with a poor little fellow.
The eye by which I see God is the same eye
by which he sees me.
The eye is easily daunted.
The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.
The eye is the best of artists.
The eye is the mirror of the soul.
The eye is the only note-book of the true poet.
The eye is the window of the soul; even an animal looks for a man's intentions right into his eyes.
The eye--it cannot choose but see; / We cannot bid the ear be still; / Our bodies feel, where'er they be, / Against or with our will.
The eye of a critic is often like a microscope, made so very fine and nice, that it discovers the atoms, grains, and minutest particles, without ever comprehending the whole, comparing the parts, or seeing all at once the harmony.
The eye of the master will do more work than both his hands.
The eye repeats every day the first eulogy on
things: "He saw that they were very good."
The eye sees in all things what it brings with it the faculty of seeing.
The eye sees not itself, / But by reflection, by some other things.
The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.
The eye that sees all things else sees not itself.
The eyes being in the highest part, hold the
post of sentinels.
The eyes of other people are the eyes that ruin us. If all but myself were blind, I would want neither fine clothes, fine houses, nor fine furniture.
The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good.
The face is the index of the mind.
The face of man gives us fuller and more interesting information than his tongue; for his face is the compendium of all he will ever say, as it is the one record of all he has thought and endeavoured.
The faculty for remembering is not diminished
in proportion to what one has learnt, just as little as the number of moulds in which you cast sand lessens its capacity for being cast in new moulds.
The faculty of art is to change events; the faculty of science is to foresee them. The phenomena with which we deal are controlled by art; they are predicted by science.
The faculty of listening is a tender thing, and soon becomes weary and satiated.
The failings of good men are commonly more published in the world than their good deeds; and one fault of a deserving man shall meet with more reproaches than all his virtues praise; such is the force of ill-will and ill-nature.
The faint, exquisite music of a dream.
The fair maid who, the first of May, / Goes to the fields at break of day, / And washes in dew from the hawthorn tree, / Will ever after handsome be.
The fair point of the line of beauty is the line of love. Strength and weakness stand on either side of it. Love is the point in which they unite.
The fairest action of our human life is scorning to avenge an injury.
The fairest tulip's not the sweetest flower.
The faith in an Invisible, Unnameable, Godlike, present everywhere in all we see and work and suffer, is the essence of all faith whatsoever; and that once denied, or, still worse, asserted with lips only, and out of bound prayer-books only, what other thing remains credible?
The faith of a hearer must be extremely perplexed who considers the speaker, or believes that the speaker considers himself as under no obligation to adhere to truth, but according to the particular importance of what he relates.
The faith that stands on authority is not faith.
The faithful servant is a humble friend.
The fall from the (Christian) faith, and all the
corruptions of its abortive practice, may be summed up briefly as the habitual contemplation of Christ's death instead of his life, and the substitution of his past suffering for our present duty.
The falling out of faithful friends is the renewing of love.
The family is the proper province for private women to shine in.
The family virtues are indispensable to the proper continuance of a society.
The fashion doth wear out more apparel than the man.
The fashion of this world passeth away.
The fatal man, is he not always the unthinking, the man who cannot think and see?
The fatal tendency of mankind to leave off thinking about a thing when it is no longer doubtful, is the cause of half their errors. A contemporary author has well spoken of "the deep slumber of a decided opinion."
The fatal trait
The fate of a man of feeling is, like that of a tuft of flowers, twofold; he may either mount upon the head of all, or go to decay in the wilderness.
The fate of empires depends upon the education
of youth.
The fated will happen.
The fates but only spin the coarser clue; / The finest of the wool is left for you.
The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge.
The faults of the superior man are like the eclipses of the sun and moon. He has his faults, and all men see them; he changes, and all men look up to him.
The fear o' hell's the hangman's whip, / To
haud the wretch in order; / But when ye feel yer honour grip, / Let that be aye yer border.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy is understanding.
The fear of the Lord is the fountain of life.
The fear of the Lord is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate.
The fear of the Lord tendeth to life: and he that hath it shall abide satisfied.
The fearful unbelief is unbelief in yourself.
The feast of reason and the flow of soul.
The feelings, like flowers and butterflies, last longer the later they are delayed.
The female heart is just like a new india-rubber shoe; you may pull and pull at it till it stretches out a yard long; and then let go, and it will fly right back to its old shape.
The fetters of the slave bind the hands only.
The fewer our wants, the nearer we resemble
the gods.
The fibres of all things have their tension, and are strained like the strings of a lyre.
The field cannot be well seen from within the field. The astronomer must have his diameter of the earth's orbit as a base to fix the parallax of any other star.
The finding of your able man, and getting him invested with the symbols of ability, is the business, well or ill accomplished, of all social procedure whatsoever in the world.
The finer the nature, the more flaws it will show through the clearness of it; and it is a law of this universe that the best things shall be seldomest seen in their best form.
The finest composition of human nature, as
well as the finest china, may have a flaw in it, and this in either case is equally incurable.
The finest language is chiefly made up of unimposing words.
The finest lives, in my opinion, are those who rank in the common model and with the human race, but without miracle, without extravagance.
The finest minds, like the finest metals, dissolve the easiest.
The finest nations in the world--the English and the American--are going all away into wind and tongue.
The finest qualities of our nature, like the
bloom on fruits, can be preserved only by the most delicate handling; yet we do not treat ourselves or one another thus tenderly.
The fire in the flint shows not till it's struck.
The fire that all things else consumeth clean / May hurt and heal.
The fire that does not warm me shall never scorch me.
The fire which enlightens is the same fire which consumes.
The first and worst of all frauds is to cheat one's self. All sin is easy after that.
The first approach to riches is security from poverty.
The first article that a young trader offers for
sale is his honesty.
The first, as indeed the last, nobility of education is in the rule over our thoughts.
The first breath / Is the beginning of death.
The first business of the philosopher is to part with self-conceit.
The first condition of education is being put to wholesome and useful work.
The first condition of goodness is something to
love; the second, something to reverence.
The first creation of God in the works of the days was the light of the sense; the last was the light of the reason; and his Sabbath-work ever since is the illumination of the spirit.
The first day a man is a guest, the second a burden, the third a pest.
The first days of spring have less grace than the growing virtue of a young man.
The first duty of a man is that of subduing fear; he must get rid of fear; he cannot act at all till then; his acts are slavish, not true.
The first duty of every man in the world is to
find his true master, and, for his own good, submit to him; and to find his true inferior, and, for that inferior's good, conquer him.
The first evil those suffer who are fain to talk is that they hear nothing.
The first faults are theirs that commit them, / The second are theirs that permit them.
The first forty years of life furnish the text, the remaining thirty the commentary.
The first glass for myself, the second for my friends, the third for good-humour, and the fourth for mine enemies.
The first glass of a wine is the one which gives
us its true taste.
The first great work / Is that yourself may to yourself be true.
The first hour of the morning is the rudder of the day.
The first ingredient in conversation is truth, the next good sense, the third good humour, and the fourth wit.
The first lesson of life is one of vicarious suffering.
The first lesson of literature, no less than of
life, is the learning how to burn one's own smoke.
"The first love, which is infinite," can be followed by no second like it.
The first of the nine orders of knaves is he that tells his errand before he goes it.
The first period of a nation, as of an individual, is the period of unconscious strength.
The first point of wisdom is to discern that which is false; the second, to know that which is true.
The first power of a nation consists in knowing
how to guide the plough; its second power consists in knowing how to wear the fetter.
The first principle of all human economy--individual or political--is to live with as few wants as possible, and to waste nothing of what is given us to supply them.
The first problem
The first proof of a man's incapacity for anything is his endeavouring to fix the stigma of failure upon others.
The first requisite, both in conversation and correspondence, is to attend to all the proper decorums which our own character and that of others demand.
The first sigh of love is the last of wisdom.
The first sin in our universe was Lucifer's, that of self-conceit.
The first spiritual want of a barbarous man is decoration, as indeed we still see among the barbarous classes in civilised countries.
The first step towards greatness is to be honest.
The first test of a truly great man is his humility. I do not mean by humility, doubt of his power or hesitation in speaking his opinions; but a right understanding of the relation between what he can say and do, and the rest of the world's sayings and doings.
The first thing for acceptance of truth is to
unlearn human doctrines and become as a little child.
The first thing in oratory, Demosthenes used to say, was action; the second, action; and the third, action.
The first use of education is to enable us to consult with the wisest and the greatest men on all points of earnest difficulty.
The first wealth is health. Sickness is poor-spirited, and cannot serve any one; it must husband its resources to live. But health or fulness answers its own ends, and has to spare, runs over, and inundates the neighbourhoods and creeks of other men's necessities.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third, live in it yourself.
The fittest place where man can die / Is where
he dies for man.
The flesh-bound volume is the only revelation
that is, that was, or that can be. In that is the image of God painted; in that is the law of God written; in that is the promise of God revealed.
The flighty purpose never is o'ertook, / Unless the deed go with it.
The floating vapour is just as true an illustration of the law of gravity as the falling avalanche.
The flower is the proper object of the seed, not the seed of the flower.
The flower of sweetest smell is shy and lowly.
The flower of youth never appears more beautiful than when it bends towards the Sun of Righteousness.
The flute is sweet / To gods and men, but sweeter the lyre / And voice of a true singer.
The follies of modern Liberalism are practically summed up in the denial or neglect of the quality and intrinsic value of things.
The folly of all follies / Is to be love-sick for
a shadow.
The folly of others is ever most ridiculous to those who are themselves most foolish.
The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.
The fool is always discovered if he stayeth too long; like the ass dressed in a tiger's skin, from his voice.
The fool is in himself the object of pity till he is flattered.
The fool needs company, the wise man solitude.
The foolish and the dead alone never change their opinion.
The foot of the owner is the best manure for his land.
The force of the guinea in your pocket depends on the default of a guinea in your neighbour's.
The form of government can never be a matter of choice; it is almost always a matter of necessity.
The formation of his character ought to be
the chief aim of every man.
The fortitude of a Christian consists in patience.
The fortune which nobody sees makes a man happy and unenvied.
The foul slime stands for the sloth and vice of man, the decay of humanity; the fragrant flower that springs from it, for the purity and courage which are immortal.
The foundations of man are not in matter, but in spirit.
The fountain which from Helicon proceeds, /
That sacred stream, should never water weeds.
The fox puts off all with a jest.
The fox thrives best when he is most curst.
The fraction of life can be increased in value not so much by increasing your numerator as by lessening your denominator. Nay, unless my algebra deceives me, unity itself divided by zero will give infinity.
The free man is he who is loyal to the laws of this universe; who in his heart sees and knows that injustice cannot befall him here; that, except by sloth and cowardly falsity, evil is not possible here.
The
The fresh air of the open country is the proper place to which we belong. It is as if the breath of God were there wafted immediately to men, and a divine power exerted its influence.
The fresh gaze of a child is richer in significance than the forecasting of the most indubitable seer.
The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, / Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel.
The frost is God's plough, which he drives through every inch of ground, opening each clod and pulverising the whole.
The fruit of friendship, in opening the understanding,
is not restrained only to such friends as are able to give counsel (they indeed are best), but even without that a man learneth of himself, and bringeth his own thoughts to light, and whetteth his wits as against a stone, which itself cuts not.
The fruit of life is experience, not happiness, and its fruition to accustom ourselves, and to be content, to exchange hope for insight.
The fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace.
The fruit that's yellow / Is found not always mellow.
The full moon brings fair weather.
The full soul loatheth a honeycomb; but to
the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.
The furiously wicked have but a short career. Bad for them, but good for the universe.
The future comes on slowly, the present flies like an arrow, the past stands for ever still.
The future destiny of the child is always the work of the mother.
The future epic of the world rests not with those near dead, but with those that are alive, and those that are coming into life.
The future hides in it / Gladness and sorrow; /
We press still thoro'; / Nought that abides in it / Daunting us--onward; / But solemn before us, / Veiled the dark portal, / Goal of all mortal. / Stars silent rest o'er us--/ Graves under us, silent.
The gain of lying is nothing else but not to be trusted of any, nor to be believed when we say the truth.
The game is not worth the candle.
The gardener's business is to tend the flowers and root out the weeds.
The general and perpetual voice of men is as the sentence of God himself.
The general tendency of things throughout
the world is to render mediocrity the ascendant power among mankind.
The generality never suspect the devil even when he has them by the throat.
The generous, who is always just, and the just who is always generous, may, unannounced, approach the throne of Heaven.
The genius of light is friendly to the noble, and, in the dark, brings them friends from afar.
The genius, wit, and spirit of a nation are discovered by their proverbs.
The gentle mind by gentle deeds is known.
The genuine use of gunpowder I hold to be that it makes all men alike tall.
The germs of all things are in every heart.
The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vanity tossed to and fro of them that seek death.
The gift blindeth the wise and perverteth the words of the righteous.
The gift of prayer is not always in our power,
but in the eye of Heaven the very wish to pray is prayer.
The gift which is to be given should be given gratuitously.
The gifted man is he who sees the essential point and leaves aside all the rest as surplusage.
The glass of fashion and the mould of form, / The observed of all observers.
The glory dies not, and the grief is past.
The glory is not in never falling, but in rising
every time you fall.
The glory of a people and of an age is always the work of a small number of great men, and disappears with them.
The glory of children are their fathers.
The glory of philosophy lies not in solving the problem, but in putting it.
The glory of young men is their strength: and the beauty of old men is the grey head.
The God of merely traditional believers is
the great Absentee of the universe.
The god of this world is riches, pleasure, and pride.
The God who dwells in my bosom can stir my heart to its depths.
The goddess Athene is armed with the Gorgon's head.
The gods approve the depth, and not the tumult, of the soul.
The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices /
Make instruments to scourge us.
The gods are long-suffering; but the law from the beginning was, He that will not work shall perish from the earth; and the patience of the gods has limits.
The gods are on the side of the strongest.
The gods are wont to save by human means.
The gods do not avenge on the son the misdeeds of the father. Each or good or bad reaps the due reward of his own actions. Parents' blessing, not their curse, is inherited.
The gods hearken to him who hearkens to
them.
The gods in charity oft lend their strength to man.
The gods invariably make us pay dear for the great benefits they confer on us.
The gods of fable are the shining moments of great men.
The gods sell all things at a fair price.
The gods sell to us all the goods which they
give us.
The gods, when they appear to man, are commonly unrecognised by them.
The golden age hath passed away, / Only the good have power to bring it back.
The golden age, that lovely prime, / Existed in the past no more than now. / And did it e'er exist, believe me, / As then it was, it now may be restored. Still meet congenial spirits, and enhance / Each other's pleasures in this beauteous world.
The golden moments in the stream of life rush past us, and we see nothing but sand; the angels come to visit us, and we only know them when they are gone.
The good are always ready to be the upholders
of the good in their misfortunes. Elephants even are wont to bear the burthens of elephants who have sunk in the mire.
The good are better made by ill, / As odours crushed are sweeter still.
The good die first, / And they whose hearts are dry as summer dust / Burn to the socket.
The good-for-nothing is he who cannot command and cannot even obey.
The good is always beautiful, the beautiful is good.
The good mother saith not, "Will you?" but
gives.
The good nature of the dog is not discouraged, although it often brings upon him only rebuffs; the abusive treatment of man never offends him, because he loves man.
The good need little water, but the base / Free from their guilt not ocean's self can lave.
The good of other times let others state; / I think it lucky I was born so late.
The good old rule / Sufficeth them, the simple plan, / That they should take who have the power, / And they should keep who can.
The good that passes by without returning,
leaves behind it an impression that may be compared to a void, and is felt like a want.
The good, the new, comes exactly from that quarter whence it is not looked for, and is always something different from what is expected.
The good things which belong to prosperity are to be wished; but the good things that belong to adversity are to be admired.
The good word is an easy obligation; but not to speak ill requires only our silence, which costs us nothing.
The goods of this world cannot be divided without being lessened; but why be a niggard of that which bestows bliss on a fellow-creature, yet takes nothing from our own means of enjoyment?
The goose that lays the golden eggs likes to
lay where there are eggs already.
The gospel is at once the assigner of our tasks and the magazine of our strength.
The Gothic cathedral is a blossoming in stone subdued by the insatiable demand of harmony in man.
The governing class, who should be working at an ark of deliverance for themselves and us while the hours still are, do nothing but complain, "We cannot get our hands kept rightly warm," and sit obstinately burning the planks.
The government must always be a step in advance of the popular movement.
The government of England is a government of law.
The gown is hers that wears it, and the world is his who enjoys it.
The graceful minuet-dance of fancy must give
place to the toilsome, thorny pilgrimage of understanding.
The grand encourager of Delphic and other noises is the echo.
"The grapes are sour," said the fox when he could not reach them.
The gravest events dawn with no more noise than the morning star makes in rising. All great developments complete themselves in the world, and modestly wait in silence, praising themselves never, and announcing themselves not at all. We must be sensitive and sensible if we would see the beginnings and endings of great things. That is our part.
The great agent of the march of the world is pain, the unsatisfied being that craves for development and is ill at ease in the process.
The great and rich depend on those whom
their power or their wealth attaches to them.
The great art of ruling consists for most part in persuading the people to believe that whatever happens happens through us.
The great artist is the slave of his ideal.
The great cause of revolutions is this: that, while nations move onward, constitutions stand still.
The great distinction between mediæval art and modern is, that the former was brought into the service of religion and the latter is not.
The great doers in history have always been
men of faith.
The great duty of life is not to give pain; and the most acute reasoner cannot find an excuse for one who voluntarily wounds the heart of a fellow-creature.
The great error of our nature is, not to know where to stop, not to be satisfied with any reasonable acquirement, not to compound with our condition; but to lose all we have gained by an insatiable pursuit after more.
The great event for the world is, now as always, the arrival in it of a new wise man.
The great facts are the near ones.
The great felicity of life is to be without perturbation.
The great hope of society is individual character.
The great make us feel, first of all, the indifference of circumstances.
The great man does, in good truth, belong to his own age; nay, more so than any other man; being properly the synopsis and epitome of such age with its interests and influences; but belongs likewise to all ages, otherwise he is not great.
 (_k
The great man goes ahead of his time, the man makes his own out of it, and the blockhead sets himself against it.
The great man has more of human nature than
other men organised in him.
The great man is he who, in the midst of the crowd, keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of solitude.
The great mass of people have eyes and ears, but not much more, especially little power of judgment, and even memory.
The great modern recipe is to work, still to work, and always to work.
The great moments of life are but moments like the others. Your doom is spoken in a word or two. A single look from the eyes, a mere pressure of the hand, may decide it; or of the lips, though they cannot speak.
The great point is not to pull down, but to
build up, and in this humanity finds pure joy.
The great portion of labour is not skilled; the millions are and must be skilless, where strength alone is wanted.
The great principle of all effort is to endeavour to do, not what is absolutely best, but what is easily within our power, and adapted to our temper and condition.
The great river-courses which have shaped the lives of men have hardly changed.
The great role of moral conduct is, next to God, to respect time.
The great school for learning is the brain itself
of the learner.
The great soul of the world is just. There is justice here below; at bottom there is nothing else but justice.
The great soul that sits on the throne of the universe is not, never was, and never will be, in a hurry.
The great source of calamity lies in regret or anticipation; he therefore is most wise who thinks of the present alone, regardless of the past or the future.
The great spirits that have gone before us can survive only as disembodied voices.
The great successes of the world have been
affairs of a second, a third, nay, a fiftieth trial.
The great thieves punish the little ones.
The great thing, after all, is only Forwards.
The great world-revolutions send in their disturbing billows to the remotest creek, and the overthrow of thrones more slowly overturns also the households of the lowly.
The greater and more various any one's knowledge, the longer he takes to find out anything that may suddenly be asked him; because he is like a shopkeeper who has to get the article wanted from a large and multifarious store.
The greater height sends down the deeper fall: / And good declin'd turns bad, turns worst of all.
The greater man the greater courtesy.
The greater proportion of mankind are more sensitive to contemptuous language than unjust acts; for they can less easily bear insult than wrong.
The greatest achievements of the human mind are generally received at first with distrust.
The greatest benefit which one friend can
confer upon another, is to guard, and excite, and elevate his virtues.
The greatest braggards are generally the greatest cowards.
The greatest clerkes
The greatest difficulties lie where we are not looking for them.
The greatest events of an age are its best thoughts. It is the nature of thought to find its way into action.
The greatest expense we can be at is that of
our time.
The greatest felicity that felicity hath is to spread.
The greatest flood hath the soonest ebb; the sorest tempest the most sudden calm; the hottest love the coldest end; and from the deepest desire oftentimes ensues the deadliest hate.
The greatest genius is the most indebted man.
The greatest happiness of the greatest number.
The greatest hatred, like the greatest virtue
and the worst dogs, is quiet.
The greatest man in history was the poorest.
The greatest man is ever a son of man
The greatest man living may stand in need of the meanest as much as the meanest does of him.
The greatest men even want much more of the sympathy which every honest fellow can give than that which the great only can impart.
The greatest men of a nation are those whom
it puts to death.
The greatest men of any age, those who become its leaders when there is a great march to be begun, are separated from the average intellects of their day by a distance which is immeasurable in ordinary terms of wonder.
The greatest men, whether poets or historians, live entirely in their own age, and the greatest faults of their works are gathered out of their own age.
The greatest men will be necessarily those who possess the best capacities, cultivated with the best habits.
The greatest miracle of love is to eradicate flirtation.
The greatest misfortune of all is not to be able
to bear misfortune.
The greatest object in the universe, says a certain philosopher, is a good man struggling with adversity; yet there is a still greater, which is the good man that comes to relieve it.
The greatest of all economists are the fortifying virtues, which the wisest men of all time have arranged under the general heads of Prudence, or Discretion, the spirit which discerns and adopts rightly; Justice, the spirit which rules and divides rightly; Fortitude, the spirit which persists and endures rightly; and Temperance, the spirit which stops and refuses rightly.
The greatest of all injustice is that which goes under the name of law.
The greatest of all perversities is to deny one's own nature and act contrary to its innate moral principle.
The greatest of faults, I should say, is to be
conscious of none.
The greatest of follies is to sacrifice health for any other advantage.
The greatest of heroic deeds are those which are performed within four walls and in domestic privacy.
The greatest ornament of an illustrious life is modesty and humility, which go a great way in the character even of the most exalted princes.
The greatest part of mankind labour under one delirium or another.
The greatest prayer is patience.
The greatest skill is shown in disguising our skill.
The greatest scholars are not always the wisest men.
The greatest star is that at the little end of the telescope,--the star that is looking, not looked after, nor looked at.
The greatest success is confidence, or perfect understanding between sincere people.
The greatest truths are commonly the simplest.
The greatest truths are the simplest; and so are the greatest men.
The greatest vessel hath but its measure.
The greatest virtues of men are only splendid sins.
The Greeks and Romans are the only ancients who never become old.
The Greeks cared for man only, and for the
rest of the universe little or not at all; the moderns for the universe only, and man not at all.
The Greeks were the first to exalt spirit to lordship over nature; it was Christ who first taught us what that spirit is in itself.
The grey mare is the better horse.
The grief that does not speak / Whispers the o'er-fraught heart, and bids it break.
The grief which all hearts share grows less for one.
The groundsel speaks not save what it heard
at the hinges.
The guilty mind debases the great image that it wears, and levels us with brutes.
The habit and power of reading with reflection, comprehension, and memory all alert and awake, does not come at once to the natural man any more than many other sovereign virtues.
The habit of looking on the best side of every event is worth more than a thousand a year.
The habit of lying, when once formed, is easily extended to serve the designs of malice or interest; like all habits, it spreads indeed of itself.
The habit of party in England is not to ask the alliance of a man of genius, but to follow the guidance of a man of character.
The hand of little employment hath the daintier
sense.
The hand that gives, gathers.
The Hand that hath made you fair hath made you good; the goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty brief in goodness; but grace, being the soul of your complexion, should keep the body of it ever fair.
The happiest of men were he who, understanding his craft and working intelligently with his hands, and earning competence and freedom by the exercise of his wits, found time to live by the heart and by the brain, to understand his own work, and to love the work of God.
The happiness of life is made up of minute fractions,--the little, soon-forgotten charities of a kiss, a smile, a kind look, a heartfelt compliment in the disguise of a playful raillery, and the countless other infinitesimals of pleasant thought and feeling.
The happiness of man depends on no creed
and no book; it depends on the dominion of truth, which is the redeemer and saviour, the Messiah and the King of glory.
The happiness of the human race is one of the designs of God, but our own individual happiness must not be made our first or our direct aim.
The happiness we owe to ourselves is greater than that which we owe to our surroundings.
The happy day will come when mind, heart and hands shall be alive together, and shall work in concert; when there shall be a harmony between God's munificence and man's delight in it.
The happy have whole days, and those they choose; / The unhappy have but hours, and those they lose.
The happy man is he who distinguishes the
boundary between desires and delight, and stands firmly on the higher ground.
The happy think a lifetime a short stage: / One night to the unhappy seems an age.
The hardest step is over the threshold.
The hardships or misfortunes we lie under are more easy to us than those of any other person would be, should we change conditions with him.
The hare leaps out of the bush where we least look for her.
The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labourers
are few.
The hatred which is grafted on extinguished friendship must bring forth the most deadly fruits.
The head cannot understand any work of art unless it be in company with the heart.
The head is a half, a fraction, until it is enlarged and inspired by the moral sentiments.
The head learns new things, but the heart for evermore practises old experiences.
The head only reproduces what the heart
creates; and so we give the mocking-bird credit when he imitates the loving murmurs of the dove.
The health of a state consists simply in this, that in it those who are wisest shall also be strongest.
The healthy know not of their health, but only the sick.
The healthy man is the compliment of the seasons, and in winter summer is in his heart. There is the south!
The healthy understanding is not the logical argumentative, but the intuitive; for the end of understanding is not to prove and find reasons, but to know and believe.
The heart always sees before the head can
see.
The heart aye's the part aye / That mak's us right or wrang.
The heart benevolent and kind / The most resembles God.
The heart can ne'er a transport know / That never feels a pain.
The heart has eyes that the brain knows nothing of.
The heart has its arguments with which the
understanding is not acquainted.
The heart is a small thing, but desireth great matters. It is not sufficient for a kite's dinner, yet the whole world is not sufficient for it.
The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked; who can know it?
The heart is like a millstone, which gives meat if you supply it with corn, but frets itself if you don't.
The heart is like a musical instrument of many strings, all the chords of which require putting in harmony.
The heart is like the sea, is subject to storms,
ebb-tide and flood, and in its depths is many a precious pearl.
The heart is the best logician.
The heart knoweth his own bitterness; and a stranger doth not intermeddle with his joy.
The heart must be beaten or bruised, and then the sweet scent will come out.
The heart must be divorced from its idols.
The heart must glow before the tongue can
gild.
The heart needs not for its heaven much space, nor many stars therein, if only the star of love has arisen.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth, but the mouth of a wise man is in his heart.
The heart of a wise man should resemble a mirror, which reflects every object without being sullied by any.
The heart of childhood is all mirth.
The heart of every man lies open to the shafts of reproof if the archer can but take a proper aim.
The heart of man is the place the devils dwell
in.
The heart of the righteous studieth to answer; but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.
The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.
The heart sees farther than the head.
The heart that is soonest awake to the flowers is always the first to be touched by the thorns.
The heart that once truly loves never forgets.
The heart, unlike the fancy and the imagination, is not complex, and may be reached by the same weapons of thought in the most luxurious court of Christendom as in the tent of the Arab or the wigwam of the Cherokee.
The heart which truly loves puts not its love aside ... but grows stronger for that which seeks to thwart it.
The heart will break, yet brokenly live on.
The hearts of men are their books, events are their tutors, great actions are their eloquence.
The heavenly powers never go out of their
road.
The heavens and the earth, and all that is between them, think ye we have created them in jest?
The heavens and the earth are but the time-vesture of the Eternal.
The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament showeth his handiwork.
The heavenward path which a great man opens up for us and traverses generally, like the track of a ship through the water, closes behind him on his decease.
The heaviest head of corn hangs its head
lowest.
The heavy and the weary weight / Of all this unintelligible world.
The Hebrew Bible, is it not, before all things, true, as no other book ever was or will be?
The height charms us, the steps to it do not; with the summit in our eye, we love to walk along the plain.
The height of ability consists in a thorough knowledge of the real value of things, and of the genius of the age we live in.
The heights by great men reached and kept /
Were not attained by sudden flight, / But they, while their companions slept, / Were toiling upward in the night.
The hell of these days is the infinite terror of Not getting on, especially of Not making money.
The hen of our neighbour appears to us as a goose.
The herd of people dread sound understanding more than anything; they ought to dread stupidity, if they knew what was really dreadful. Understanding is unpleasant, they must have it pushed aside; stupidity is but pernicious, they can let it stay.
The heroes of literary history have been no less remarkable for what they have suffered than for what they have achieved.
The heroic heart, the seeing eye, of the first
times, still feels and sees in us of the latest.
The higher character a person supports, the more he should regard his minutest actions.
The higher enthusiasm of man's nature is for the while without exponent; yet does it continue indestructible, unweariedly active, and work blindly in the great chaotic deep. Thus sect after sect, and church after church, bodies itself forth, and melts again into new metamorphosis.
The higher the culture, the more honourable the work.
The higher the wisdom, the closer its neighbourhood and kinship with mere insanity.
The higher we rise, the more isolated we
become, and all elevations are cold.
The highest art is always the most religious, and the greatest artist is always a devout man.
The highest elevation attainable by man is a heroic life.
The highest exercise of invention has nothing to do with fiction; but is an invention of new truth, what we can call a revelation.
The highest genius never flowers in satire, but culminates in sympathy with that which is best in human nature, and appeals to it.
The highest gift which we receive from God
and Nature is Life, the revolving movement, which knows neither pause nor rest, of the self-conscious being round itself. The instinct to protect and cherish life is indestructibly innate in every one, but the peculiarity of it ever remains a mystery to us and others.
The highest happiness of us mortals is to execute what we consider right and good; to be really masters of the means conducive to our aims.
The highest heaven of wisdom is alike near from every point, and thou must find it, if at all, by methods native to thyself alone.
The highest in God's esteem are meanest in their own.
The highest joys spring from those possessions which are common to all, which we can neither alienate ourselves nor be deprived of by others, to which kind Nature has given all an equal right--a right which she herself guards with silent omnipotence.
The highest liberty is in harmony with the eternal laws.
The highest man of us is born brother to his contemporaries; struggle as he may, there is no escaping the family likeness.
The highest melody dwells only in silence--the sphere melody, the melody of health.
The Highest not merely has, but is, reason and understanding.
The highest political watchword is not Liberty,
Equality, Fraternity, nor yet Solidarity, but Service.
The highest price a man can pay for a thing is to ask for it.
The highest problem of every art is, by means of appearances, to produce the illusion of a loftier reality.
The highest problem of literature is the writing of a Bible.
The highest reach of a news-writer is an empty reasoning on policy, and vain conjectures on the public management.
The highest thing that art can do is to set
before you the true image of the presence of a noble human being. It has never done more than this, and it might not do less.
The highest virtue of the tropics is chastity; of colder regions, temperance.
The highest wisdom is not to be always wise.
The highway of the upright is to depart from evil.
The hind that would be mated by the lion / Must die for love.
The historian is a prophet with his face directed
to the past.
The history of a man is his character.
The history of a soldier's wound beguiles the pain of it. We lose the right of complaining sometimes by forbearing it, but we often treble the force.
The history of every man should be a Bible.
The history of persecution is a history of endeavours to cheat Nature, to make water run uphill, to twist a rope of sand. It makes no difference whether the actors be many or one, a tyrant or a mob.
The history of reforms is always identical; it
is the comparison of the idea with the fact.
The history of the Church is a history of the invisible as well as of the visible Church; which latter, if disjoined from the former, is but a vacant edifice; gilded, it may be, and overhung with old votive gifts, yet useless, nay, pestilentially unclean; to write whose history is less important than to forward its downfall.
The history of the world is nothing but the history of successful or unsuccessful grumbling; operating in great things as in small, ... inculcating through all of them the great moral, that it is not good for a man to be contented with evils that he can remove.
The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of righteousness.
The hollow sea-shell which for years hath stood / On dusty shelves, when held against the ear / Proclaims its stormy parent.
The Holy Supper is kept indeed / In whatso
we share with another's need; / Not what we give, but what we share, / For the gift without the giver is bare.
The honest heart that's free frae a' / Intended fraud or guile, / However Fortune kick the ba', / Has aye some cause to smile.
The honest man does that from duty which the man of honour does for the sake of character.
The honest man, though e'er so poor, / Is king o' men for a' that.
The honourablest part of talk is to give the occasion; and again to moderate and pass to somewhat else, for then a man leads the dance.
The horse is prepared against the day of battle:
but safety is of the Lord.
The horse thinks one thing, and he that rides him another.
The host should be indeed a host, and a lord of the land, a self-appointed brother of his race; called to this place, besides, by all the winds of heaven and his good genius, as truly as the preacher is called to preach.
The hottest love has the coldest end.
The hour of all windbags does arrive; every windbag is at length ripped and collapses.
The hours should be instructed by the ages,
and the ages explained by the hours.
The hours that we pass with happy prospects in view are more pleasing than those crowned with fruition.
The house of the childless is empty; and so is the heart of him that hath no wife.
The house that is a-building looks not as the house that is built.
The household is the home of the man as well as of the child.
The human creature needs first of all to be
educated, not that he may speak, but that he may have something weighty and valuable to say.
The human face is my landscape.
The human heart has a sigh lonelier than the cry of the bittern.
The human heart is like a millstone in a mill; when you put wheat under it, it turns, and grinds, and bruises the wheat into flour; if you put no wheat in, it still grinds on; but then it is itself it grinds and slowly wears away.
The human heart is like heaven; the more angels the more room.
The human mind cannot go beyond the gift
of God.
The human mind, in proportion as it is deprived of external resources, sedulously labours to find within itself the means of happiness, learns to rely with confidence on its own exertions, and gains with greater certainty the power of being happy.
The human mind is to be treated like a skein of ravelled silk, where you must cautiously secure one free end before you can make any progress in disentangling it.
The human mind will not be confined to any limits.
The human race is in the best condition when it has the greatest degree of liberty.
The human soul is like a bird that is born in a cage. Nothing can deprive it of its natural longings, or obliterate the mysterious remembrance of its heritage.
The human voice has an authority and an
insinuating property which writing lacks.
The husbandman that laboureth must be first partaker of the fruits.
The hypocrite shows well and says well, and himself is the worst thing he hath.
The idea you have once spoken, if even it were an idea, is no longer yours; it is gone from you, so much life and virtue is gone, and the vital circulations of yourself and your destiny and activity are henceforth deprived of it.
The Ideal always has to grow in the Real, and to seek out its bed and board there in a very sorry way.
The ideal beauty is a fugitive which is never
located.
The ideal of beauty is simplicity and repose; from which it follows that no youth can be a master.
The ideal of friendship is to feel as one while remaining two.
The idle always have a mind to do something.
The ignorant classes are the dangerous classes.
The ignorant peasant without fault is greater
than the philosopher with many.
The Iliad and the Shakespeare are tame to him who hears the rude but homely incidents of the road from every traveller.
The "Iliad" of Homer is no fiction, but a ballad history, the heart of it burning with enthusiastic, ill-informed belief.
The ill that's wisely feared is half withstood, / And fear of bad is the best foil to good.
The image of God cut in ebony
The imagination, give it the least license, dives
deeper and soars higher than Nature does.
The imagination is a fine faculty; yet I like not when she works on what has actually happened; the airy forms she creates are welcome as things of their own kind; but uniting with reality she produces often nothing but monsters, and seems to me, in such cases, to fly into direct variance with reason and common-sense.
The imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth.
The imaginative power always purifies, the want of it therefore essentially defiles.
The imbecility of men is always inviting the impudence of power.
The importunities and perplexities of business
are softness and luxury, compared with the incessant cravings of vacancy, and the unsatisfactory expedients of idleness.
The impressions of our childhood abide with us, even in their minutest traces.
The indignation which makes verses is, properly speaking, an inverted love; the love of some right, some worth, some goodness, belonging to ourselves or others, which has been injured, and which this tempestuous feeling issues forth to defend and revenge.
The individual and the race are always moving, and as we drift into new latitudes new lights open in the heaven more immediately over us.
The individual loves and hatreds, which sum up existence and life, are the brood of Eros; for hatred is only love in some form, crossed and thwarted, and always in nature so much hostility, so much affection of some kind is there.
The individual soul should seek for an intimate
union with the soul of the universe.
The infant / Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms. / And then the whining schoolboy, with his satchel, / And shining morning face, creeping like snail / Unwillingly to school.
The infinite is more sure than any other fact. The infinite of terror, of hope, of pity; did it not at any moment disclose itself to thee, indubitable, unnameable? Came it never, like the gleam of preternatural eternal oceans, like the voice of old eternities, far-sounding through thy heart of hearts?
The infinitely little have a pride infinitely great.
The influence which we exercise over other objects depends on the influence we have over ourselves.
The injuries of life, if rightly improved, will be
to us as the strokes of the statuary on his marble, forming us to a more beautiful shape, and making us fitter to adorn the heavenly temple.
The injustice done to an individual is sometimes of service to the public.
The ingratitude of the world can never deprive us of the conscious happiness of having acted with humanity ourselves.
The initial virtue of the race consists in the acknowledgment of their own lowly nature, and submission to the laws of higher being.
The ink of the scholar and the blood of the martyr are of equal value in the eye of heaven.
The innocent seldom find an uneasy pillow.
The inquiry of truth, which is the love-making or wooing of it; the knowledge of truth, which is the presence of it; and the belief of truth, which is the enjoying of it, is the sovereign good of human nature.
The insolence of condescension.
The insolence of office.
The inspiration of the Almighty giveth man understanding.
The instinctive feeling of a great people is often wiser than the wisest men.
The instruction merely clever men can give us is like baked bread, savoury and satisfying for a single day; but flour cannot be sown, and seed-corn ought not to be ground.
The integrity of the upright shall guide them.
The intellect has only one failing: it has no conscience.
The intellect of the wise is like glass; it
admits the light of heaven and reflects it.
The intellectual power, through words and things / Went sounding on a dim and perilous way.
The intelligent have a right over the ignorant; namely, the right of instructing them.
The intolerant man is the real pedant.
The invariable mark of wisdom is to see the miraculous in the common.
The inventor of a spinning-jenny is pretty sure
of his reward in his own day; but the writer of a true poem, like the apostle of a true religion, is nearly as sure of the contrary.
The invisible world is near us; or rather it is here, in us and about us; were the fleshly coil removed from our soul, the glories of the unseen were even now around us; as the ancients fabled of the spheral music.
The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve.
The irreligious poet is a monster.
The

The Israelitish people never was good for
much, as its own leaders, judges, rulers, prophets have a thousand times reproachfully declared; it possesses few virtues, and most of the faults of other nations; but in cohesion, steadfastness, valour, and when all this would not serve, in obstinate toughness, it has no match.
The jealous is possessed by a "fine mad devil" and a dull spirit at once.
The jealous man's disease is of so malignant a nature, that it converts all it takes into its own nourishment.
The jest which is expected is already destroyed.
The joy of a peaceful conscience is sown in tears.
The joys of parents are secret, and so are
their griefs and fears.
The judgment is like a pair of scales, and evidences like the weights; but the will holds the balance in its hand; and even a slight jerk will be sufficient, in many cases, to make the lighter scale appear the heavier.
The judgment of the world stands upon matter of fortune.
The judgments of the understanding are properly of force but once, and that in the strictest cases, and become inaccurate in some degree when applied to any other.
The just man walketh in his integrity: his children are blessed after him.
The justice, / In fair round belly with good
capon lined, / With eyes severe and beard of formal cut, / Full of wise saws and modern instances; / And so he plays his part.
The keeping of bees is like the directing of sunbeams.
The key to every man is his thought. Sturdy and defying though he look, he has a helm which he obeys.
The kind fool, of all kinds of fools, is worst.
The kind of speech in a man betokens the kind of action you will get from him.
The king goes as far as he may, not as far as
he would.
The king, like other people, has now and then shabby errands, and must have shabby fellows to do them.
The king may gang the cadger's gate
The king protecteth the people, and they support the greatness of their sovereign. But protection is better than greatness; for the one cannot exist without the other.
The king's errand may come in at the cadger's gate.
The king's favour is toward a wise servant.
The king's honour is that of his people. Their real honour and real interest are the same.
The kings of modern thought are dumb.
The king's wrath is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is as dew upon the grass.
The kingdom of God does not lie in elegance of speech or fineness of parts, but in innocence of life and good works.
The knowledge of man is an evening knowledge,
"vespertina cognitio," but that of God is a morning knowledge, "matutina cognitio."
The knowledge of thyself will preserve thee from vanity.
The labour we delight in physics pain.
The labourer is worthy of his hire.
The lake's silver dulls with driving clouds.
The lamp of genius burns quicker than the
lamp of life.
The lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
The land is mother of us all; nourishes, shelters, gladdens, lovingly enriches us all; in how many ways, from our first wakening to our last sleep on her blessed mother-bosom, does she, as with blessed mother's arms, enfold us all!
The land, properly speaking, belongs to these two: to the Almighty God; and to all his children of men that have ever worked well on it, or that shall ever work well on it.
The language of truth is simple.
The largest soul of any country is altogether its own.
The last act crowns the play.
The last, best fruit which comes to late perfection, even in the kindliest soul, is tenderness toward the hard, forbearance toward the unforbearing, warmth of heart toward the cold, philanthropy toward the misanthropic.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
The last ounce breaks the camel's back.
The last pale rim or sickle of the moon, which had once been full, now sinking in the dark seas.
The last perfection of our faculties is that their activity, without ceasing to be sure and earnest, become sport.
The last stage of human perversion is when sympathy corrupts itself into envy; and the indestructible interest we take in men's doings has become a joy over their faults and misfortunes.
The last thing that we discover in writing a book is to know what to put at the beginning.
The Latin word for a flatterer
no more than a person that barely consents; and indeed such a one, if a man were able to purchase or maintain him, cannot be bought too dear.
The latter part of a wise man's life is taken up in curing the follies, prejudices, and false opinions he had contracted in the former.
The law always limits every power which it bestows.
The law cannot equalise men in spite of nature.
The law has no eyes, the law has no hands, the law is nothing--nothing but a piece of paper, till public opinion breathes the breath of life into the dead letter.
The law is good if a man use it lawfully.
The law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life.
The law is past depth to those that, without heed, do plunge into it.
The law is the friend of the weak.
The law is what we must do; the gospel what God will give.
The law of nature is the strictest expression
of necessity.
The law of perseverance is among the deepest in man; by nature he hates change; seldom will he quit his old house till it has actually fallen about his ears.
The law of the wise is a fountain of life.
The law often permits what honour prohibits.
The law will never make men free; it is men who have got to make the law free.
The law's made to take care o' raskils.
The laws of morality are also those of art.
The laws of nature are just, but terrible. There is no weak mercy in them.
The laws of nature never vary; in their application they never hesitate, nor are wanting.
The laws undertake to punish only overt acts.
The lawyer is a gentleman who rescues your
estate from your enemies, and keeps it to himself.
The leafy blossoming present time springs from the whole past, remembered and unrememberable.
The lean and slippered pantaloon, / With spectacles on nose and pouch on side; / His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide / For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice / Turning again towards childish treble, pipes / And whistles in his sound.
The learned understand the reason of the art, the unlearned feel the pleasure.
The legacy of heroes--the memory of a great name and the inheritance of a great example.
The legal and proper mercy of a king of
England may remit the punishment, but ought not to stop the trial.
The lenient hand of time is daily and hourly either lightening the burden or making us insensible to the weight.
The less a man thinks or knows about his virtues the better we like him.
The less men think the more they talk.
The less routine the more of life.
The less the wise man pleases himself, the
more the world esteems him.
The less we deserve good fortune, the more we hope for it.
The less we have to do with our sins the better.
The lessons of adversity are not always salutary; sometimes they soften and amend, but as often they indurate and pervert.
The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.
The liberal deviseth liberal things; and by
liberal things shall he stand.
The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.
The liberty of writing letters with too careless a hand is apt to betray persons into imprudence in what they write.
The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment.
The life of a fool is worse than death.
The life of a man is tormented not by things,
but by opinions of things.
The life of a nation is usually, like the flow of a lava stream, first bright and fierce, then languid and covered, at last advancing by the tumbling over and over of its frozen blocks.
The life of all gods figures itself to us as a sublime sadness,--earnestness of infinite battle against infinite labour.
The life of an animal, until the hour of his death, passeth away in disciplines, in elevations and depressions, in unions and separations.
The life of an egoist is a tissue of inconsistencies, of actions that, from his own point of view, are absurd and foolish.
The life of every man is a diary in which he means to write one story, and writes another.
The life of every man is as the well-spring of a stream, whose small beginnings are indeed plain to all, but whose ulterior course and destination, as it winds through the expanses of infinite years, only the omniscient can discern.
The life of man is a journey; a journey that
must be travelled, however bad the roads or the accommodation.
The life of the Divine Man stands in no connection with the general history of the world in his time. It was a private life; his teaching was a teaching for individuals.
The life of the lowest mortal, if faithfully recorded, would be interesting to the highest.
The life which renews a man springs ever from within.
The light by which we see in this world comes out from the soul of the observer.
The light can be a curtain as well as the darkness.
The light of friendship is like the light of phosphorus--seen plainest when all around is dark.
The light of the body is the eye; if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.
The light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.
The light that a man receiveth by counsel from another is drier and purer than that which cometh from his own understanding and judgment, which is ever infused and drenched in his affections and customs.
The light (which you refuse to take in) returns
on you, condensed into lightning, which there is not any skin whatever too thick for taking in.
The lightning is the shorthand of the storm, / That tells of chaos.
The limbs of my buried ones touched cold on my soul and drove away its blots, as dead hands heal eruptions of the skin.
The line of life is a ragged diagonal between duty and desire.
The lion is not so fierce as painted.
The lips of the righteous feed many; but fools
die for want of wisdom.
 (truss
The litigant, unlike the goose, never gets and dished.
The little done vanishes from the sight of man who looks forward to what is still to do.
The little foolery that wise men have makes a great show.
The little man is still a man.
The little mind will not by daily intercourse
with great minds become one inch greater; but the noble man ... will, by a knowledge of, and familiar intercourse with, elevated natures, everyday make a visible approximation to similar greatness.
The little that a just man hath is better than the riches of many wicked.
The lives of the best of us are spent in choosing between evils.
The loftier the building the deeper must the foundation be laid.
The loftiest mortal loves and seeks the same sort of things with the meanest, only from higher grounds and by higher paths.
The loftiest of our race are those who have
had the profoundest grief, because they have had the profoundest sympathies.
The longer a man's fame is likely to last, the later it will be in coming.
The longer life the more offence, / The more offence the greater pain, / The greater pain the less defence, / The less defence the lesser gain.
The longer we live and the more we think, the higher value we learn to put on the friendship and tenderness of parents and of friends.
The longer you read the Bible the more you will like it.
The longest day soon comes to an end.
The longest life is scarcely longer than the shortest, if we think of the eternity that encircles both.
The longest wave is quickly lost in the sea.
The look of a king is itself a deed.
The loom of Fortune weaves the fine and coarsest web.
The loom of life never stops; and the pattern
which was weaving when the sun went down in the evening is weaving when it comes up to-morrow.
The Lord bestoweth his blessings where he findeth the vessels empty.
The Lord gave, and the Lord taketh away: blessed be the name of the Lord.
The Lord is a buckler to all that trust in him.
The Lord is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed.
The Lord will not suffer the soul of the
righteous to famish: but he casteth away the substance of the wicked.
The loss of territory, or of a wise and virtuous servant, is a great loss, ... for servants are not easily to be found.
The lot is cast into the lap; but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord.
The love of country produces good manners, and good manners also love of country. The less we satisfy our particular passions, the more we leave to our general.
The love of gain never made a painter; but it has marred many.
The love of God is broader than the measure
of man's mind.
The love of letters is the forlorn hope of the man of letters.
The love of money is the root of all evil.
The love season is the carnival of egoism, and it brings the touchstone to our natures.
The lover has more senses and finer senses than others.
The lover, / Sighing like a furnace, with a
woeful ballad / Made to his mistress' eyebrow.
The lower a man descends in his love, the higher he lifts his life.
The lower has oftentimes to be with sorrow sacrificed to the higher duties of the soul.
The lower nature must always be denied when you are trying to rise to a higher sphere.
The lunatic, the lover, and the poet, / Are of imagination all compact.
The lust of fame is the last that a wise man
shakes off.
The lyric poet may drink wine and live generously, but the epic poet, who shall sing of the gods and their descent unto men, must drink water out of a wooden bowl.
The magic of the pen lies in the concentration of your thoughts upon one object.
The magic power of love consists in its ennobling whatever its breath touches, like the sun whose golden ray transmutes even thunderclouds into gold.
The main enterprise of the world for splendour, for extent, is the upbuilding of a man.
The majority have no other reason for their
opinions than that they are the fashion.
The make-weight! The make-weight! which fate throws into the balance for us at every happiness! It requires much courage not to be down-hearted in this world.
The malicious sneer is improperly called laughter.
The man at the head of the house can mar the pleasure of the household; but he cannot make it. That must rest with the woman, and it is her greatest privilege.
The man comes before the citizen, and our future is greater than both.
The man is only half himself, the other half
is his expression.
The man makes the circumstances, and is spiritually as well as economically the artificer of his own fortune, but the man's circumstances are the element he is appointed to live and work in; so that in a no less genuine sense it can be said circumstances make the man.
The man of consequence and fashion shall richly repay a deed of kindness with a nod and a smile, or a hearty shake of the hand; while a poor fellow labours under a sense of gratitude, which, like copper coin, though it loads the bearer, is yet of small account in the currency and commerce of the world.
The man of genius can be more easily misinstructed
and driven far more violently into false courses than a man of ordinary capability.
The man of genius, like a dog with a bone, sits afar and retired off the road, hangs out no sign of refreshment for man and beast, but says, by all possible hints and signs, "I wish to be alone--good-bye--farewell!"
The man of good common-sense may, if he
pleases, in his particular station of life, most certainly be rich.
The man of intellect at the top of affairs; this is the aim of all institutions and revolutions, if they have any.
The man of intellect is lost unless he unites energy of character to intellect. When we have the lantern of Diogenes we must have his staff.
The man of wisdom is the man of years.
The man should make the hour, not this the man.
The man that blushes is not quite a brute.
The man that hath no music in himself, / Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, / Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils; / The motions of his spirit are dull as night, / And his affections dark as Erebus: / Let no such man be trusted.
The man that makes a character makes foes.
The man that stands by himself, the universe stands also.
The man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain in the congregation of the dead.
The man to whom the universe does not reveal
directly what relation it has to him, whose heart does not tell him what he owes to himself and others--that man will scarcely learn it out of books; which generally do little more than give our errors names.
The man truly proud thinks honours below his merit, and scorns to boast.
The man
though unconscious of it; and preached, through the cannon's throat, that great doctrine, "La carrière ouverte aux talens," "The tools to him that can handle them," which is our ultimate political evangel, wherein alone can liberty lie.
The man who can be nothing but serious or nothing but merry is but half a man.
The man who can thank himself alone for the happiness he enjoys is truly blest.
The man who cannot be a Christian in the
place where he is, cannot be a Christian anywhere.
The man who cannot blush, and who has no feelings of fear, has reached the acme of impudence.
The man who cannot enjoy his natural gifts in silence, and find his reward in the exercise of them, but must wait and hope for their recognition by others, must expect to reap only disappointment and vexation.
The man who cannot laugh is not only fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils; but his own whole life is already a treason and a stratagem.
The man who cannot sometimes endure his own company must have a bad heart or a deficient intellect.
The man who cannot wonder, who does not habitually wonder (and worship), were he president of innumerable royal societies, and carried the whole "Méchanique Céleste" and Hegel's Philosophy, and the epitome of all laboratories and observatories with their results, in his single head, is but a pair of spectacles behind which there is no eye.
The man who does not know when to die, does not know how to live.
The man who does not learn to live while he is
getting a living is a poorer man after his wealth is won than he was before.
The man who fears not death will start at no shadows.
The man who has imagination without learning has wings without feet.
The man who has no enemies has no following.
The man who has nothing to boast of but his illustrious ancestry is like a potato,--the only good belonging to him is underground.
The man who in this world can keep the whiteness
of his soul is not likely to lose it in any other.
The man who in wavering times is inclined to be wavering only increases the evil, and spreads it wider and wider; but the man of firm decision fashions the universe.
The man who insists upon seeing with perfect clearness before he decides, never decides.
The man who invented "Ifs" and "Buts" must have first made gold out of straw choppings.
The man who is always fortunate cannot easily have a great reverence for virtue.
The man who is born with a talent which he
is meant to use, finds his greatest happiness in using it.
The man who is in a hurry to see the full effects of his own tillage must cultivate annuals, and not forest trees.
The man who leaves home to mend himself and others is a philosopher; but he who goes from country to country, guided by the blind impulse of curiosity, is only a vagabond.
The man who lives by hope will die by despair.
The man who pauses in his honesty wants little of a villain.
The man who small things scorns will next, /
By things still smaller be perplexed.
The man who will live above his present circumstances is in great danger of living in a little time much beneath them, or, as the Italian proverb says, "The man who lives by hope will die by despair."
The man who works at home helps society at large with somewhat more of certainty than he who devotes himself to charities.
The man who writes for fools is always sure of a large audience.
The man whom grown-up people love, children love still more.
The manifestation of one's own superiority
may render the purchase too dear, by being bought at the terrible price of our neighbour's dislike.
The manners of the ill-mannered are never so odious, unbearable, exasperating, as they are to their own nearest kindred.
The many still must labour for the one! It is Nature's doom.
The march of intellect is proceeding at quick time; and if its progress be not accompanied by a corresponding improvement in morals and religion, the faster it proceeds, with the more violence will you be hurried down the road to ruin.
The march of intellect, which licks all the world into shape, has reached even the devil.
The march of the human mind is slow.
The mark of the man of the world is absence of pretension. He does not make a speech; he takes a low business-tone, avoids all brag, is nobody, dresses plainly, promises not at all, performs much, speaks in monosyllables, hugs his fact. He calls his employment by its lowest name, and so takes from evil tongues their sharpest weapon.
The marks of attachment, even to a fault, are an accumulation of virtues.
The mass of men consulted at hustings, upon any high matter whatsoever, is as ugly an exhibition of human study as the world sees.
The master of slaves has seldom the soul of a man.
The master-spirit who can rule the storm is
great; but he is much greater who can both raise and rule it.
The mastiff is quiet while curs are yelping.
The material wealth of a country is the portion of its possessions which feeds and educates good men and women in it.
The May of our life blooms once, and not again.
The mean of true valour lies between the extremes of cowardice and rashness.
The means that Heaven yields must be embraced,
/ And not neglected.
The measure of a master is his success in bringing all men round to his opinion twenty years later.
The mechanical occupations of man, the watching any object, as it were, coming into existence by manual labour, is a very pleasant way of passing one's time, but our own activity is at the moment nil. It is almost the same as with smoking tobacco.
The meditative heart / Attends the warning of each day and hour, / And practises in secret every virtue.
The meek shall inherit the earth.
The memory of absent friends becomes dimmed, although not effaced by time. The distractions of our life, acquaintance with fresh objects, in short, every change in our condition, works upon our hearts as dust and smoke upon a painting, making the finely drawn lines quite imperceptible, whilst one does not know how it happens.
The memory of the just is blessed.
The men I am afraid of are the men who believe everything, subscribe to everything, and vote for everything.
The merchant who was at first busy in acquiring money ceases to grow richer from the time when he makes it his business only to count it.
The merciful shall obtain mercy.
The mere existence and necessity of a philosophy is an evil.
The mere reality of life would be inconceivably poor without the charm of fancy, which brings in its bosom, no doubt, as many vain fears as idle hopes, but lends much oftener to the illusions it calls up a gay flattering hue than one which inspires terror.
The merit of originality is not novelty, it is sincerity. The believing man is the original man; whatsoever he believes, he believes it for himself, not for another.
The meteor flag of England, / Shall yet terrific burn, / Till danger's troubled night depart, / And the star of peace return.
The milder virtues subsist only in co-existence
with the severer, and the heart which pronounces a blessing on the poor and the merciful utters with the same breath sentence of excommunication against all who are proud-spirited and cruel-hearted.
The mill will never grind with the water that is past.
The mind becomes bankrupt under too large obligations. All additional benefits lessen every hope of future returns, and bar up every avenue that leads to tenderness.
The mind can make / Substance, and people planets of its own / With beings brighter than have been, and give / A breath to forms that can outlive all flesh.
The mind conceives with pain, but it brings forth with delight.
The mind content both crown and kingdom is.
The mind goes antagonising on, and never prospers but by fits.
The mind is enlarged and elevated by mere purposes, though they end as they begin by airy contemplation.
The mind is ever ingenious in making its own distress.
The mind is its own place, and in itself / Can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven.
The mind must not yield to the body.
The mind of a fool is empty; and everything is empty where there is poverty.
The mind of a good man doth not alter, even when he is in distress; the waters of the ocean are not to be heated by a torch of straw.
The mind of man is no inert receptacle of knowledge, but absorbs and incorporates into its own constitution the ideas which it receives.
The mind of the greatest man on earth is not so independent of circumstances as not to feel inconvenienced by the merest buzzing noise about him; it does not need the report of a cannon to disturb his thoughts. The creaking of a vane or a pulley is quite enough. Do not wonder that he reasons ill just now; a fly is buzzing by his ear; it is quite enough to unfit him for giving good counsel.
The mind profits by the wrecks of every
passion, and we may measure our road to wisdom by the sorrows we have undergone.
 _th
The minds of some of our statesmen, like the pupil of the human eye, contract themselves the more the stronger light there is shed upon them.
The mind's the standard of the man.
The miracles which Christ and His disciples wrought were the scaffolding, not the building. The scaffolding is removed as soon as the building is finished.
The miser is as much in want of that which he
has as of that which he has not.
The miser is niggardly in death; two glances he casts on his coffin and a thousand with dismay on his anxiously-guarded treasures.
The miserable have no other medicine, / But only hope.
The misery of man proceeds not from any single crush of overwhelming evil, but from small vexations continually repeated.
The misfortune in the state is that nobody can enjoy life in peace, but that everybody must govern; and in art, that nobody will enjoy what has been produced, but that every one wants to reproduce on his own account.
The mixtures of spiritual chemistry refuse to
be analysed.
The mob has many heads, but no brains.
The mob is a monster, with the hands of Briareus but the head of Polyphemus,--strong to execute, but blind to perceive.
The mob is a sort of bear; while your ring is through its nose, it will even dance under your cudgel; but should the ring slip and you lose your hold, the brute will turn and rend you.
(The mob is) the scum that rises uppermost when the nation boils.
The modest virgin, the prudent wife, or the
careful matron, are much more serviceable in life than petticoated philosophers, blustering heroines, or virago queens.
The moment an ill can be patiently borne, it is disarmed of its poison, though not of its pain.
The moment must be pregnant and sufficient to itself if it is to become a worthy segment of time and eternity.
The moment there is a bargain over the pottage the family relation is dissolved.
The moment which is the cradle of the future is also the grave of the past.
The moon doth not withhold the light even from the cottage of a Chandala
The moon that shone in Paradise.
The moral difference between a man and a beast is, that the one acts primarily for use, and the other for pleasure.
The morality of a king is not to be measured
by vulgar rules. There are faults which do him honour, and virtues that disgrace him.
The morality of girls is custom, not principle.
The morality of some people is in remnants--never enough to make a coat.
The more a man has in himself the less he will want from other people--the less, indeed, other people can be to him.
The more a man lives, the more he suffers.
The more angels the more room.
The more business a man has to do, the more he is able to accomplish; for he learns to economise his time.
The more bustling the streets become, the more quietly one moves.
The more fair and crystal is the sky, / The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.
The more generally persons are pleasing, the less profoundly do they please.
The more haste, the worse speed.
The more honesty a man has, the less he affects the air of a saint.
The more laws you accept, the fewer penalties you will have to endure, and the fewer punishments to enforce.
The more men refine upon pleasure, the less will they indulge in excesses of any kind.
The more of the solid there is in a man, the less does he act the balloon.
The more powerful the obstacle, the more
glory we have in overcoming it; and the difficulties with which we are met are the maids of honour which set off virtue.
The more profound the thought, the more burdensome.
The more riches a fool has, the greater fool he is.
The more sand has escaped from the hour-glass of our life, the clearer we should see through it.
The more sinful a man feels himself, the more Christian he is.
The more the soul admires, the more it is
exalted.
The more thou feelest thyself to be a man, so much the more dost thou resemble the gods.
The more we do, the more we can do; the more busy we are, the more leisure we have.
The more we have read, the more we have learned, the more we have meditated, the better conditioned we are to affirm that we know nothing.
The more we know, the greater our thirst for knowledge. The water-lily, in the midst of waters, opens its leaves and expands its petals at the first pattering of showers, and rejoices in the raindrops with a quicker sympathy than the parched shrub in a sandy desert.
The more we work, the more we shall be
trodden down.
The more weakness, the more falsehood; strength goes straight; every cannon-ball that has in it hollows and holes goes crooked. Weaklings must lie.
The more you are talked about, the less powerful you are.
The morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy.
The most advanced nations are always those who navigate the most.
The most brilliant flashes of wit come from a
clouded mind, as lightning leaps only from an obscure firmament.
The most certain sign of wisdom is a continual cheerfulness.
The most civilised are as near to barbarism as the most polished steel to rust. Nations, like metals, have only a superficial brilliancy.
The most cursory observation shows that a degree of reserve adds vastly to the latent force of character.
The most delightful letter does not possess a hundredth part of the charm of a conversation.
The most difficult thing in life is to know yourself.
The most elevated sensation of music arises from a confused perception of ideal or visionary beauty and rapture, which is sufficiently perceivable to fire the imagination, but not clear enough to become an object of knowledge.
The most enthusiastic Evangelicals do not preach a gospel, but keep describing how it should and might be preached; to awaken the sacred fire of faith, as by a sacred contagion, is not their endeavour, but, at most, to describe how faith shows and acts, and scientifically distinguish true faith from false.
The most enthusiastic mystics were women.
The most essential fact about a man is the constitution of his consciousness.
The most finished man of the world is he who
is never irresolute and never in a hurry.
The most gladsome thing in the world is that few of us fall very low; the saddest that, with such capabilities, we seldom rise high.
The most happy man is he who knows how to bring into relation the end and the beginning of his life.
The most learned are often the most narrow-minded men.
The most important moment in man's life is certainly not the last.
The most important part of education is right
training in the nursery.
The most important period in the life of an individual is that of his development. Later on, commences his conflict with the world, and this is of interest only so far as anything grows out of it.
The most important thing is to learn to rule one's self.
The most original modern authors are not so because they advance what is new, but simply because they know how to put what they have to say as if it had never been said before.
The most objectionable people are the quibbling investigators and the crotchety theorists; their endeavours are petty and complicated, their hypotheses abstruse and strange.
The most part of all the misery and mischief,
of all that is denominated evil, in the world, arises from the face that men are too remiss to get a proper knowledge of their aims, and when they do know them, to work intensely in attaining them.
The most significant feature in the history of an epoch is the manner it has of welcoming a great man.
The most sorrowful occurrence often, through the hand of Providence, takes the most favourable turn for our happiness; the succession of fortune and misfortune in life is intertwined like sleep and waking, neither without the other, and one for the sake of the other.
The most unhappy and frail of all creatures is man, and yet he is the proudest.
The most universal quality is diversity.
The most virtuous of all men is he that contents
himself with being virtuous without seeking to appear so.
The mother-grace of all the graces is Christian good-will.
The mother of the useful arts is necessity; that of the fine arts is luxury. For father, the former has intellect; the latter, genius, which itself is a kind of luxury.
The mother's heart is always with her children.
The mother's yearning feels the presence of the cherished child even in the degraded man.
The motto of chivalry is also the motto of
wisdom; to serve all and love but one.
The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked.
The movement of sound, such as will reach the soul for the education of it in virtue, we call Music.
The multiplicity of facts and writings is become so great, that everything must soon be reduced to extracts.
The multiplying villanies of natures / Do swarm upon him.
The multitude have no habit of self-reliance
or original action.
The multitude is always in the wrong.
The multitude of fools is a protection to the wise.
The multitude unawed is insolent; once seized with fear, contemptible and vain.
The multitude which does not reduce itself to unity is confusion; the unity which does not depend upon the multitude is tyranny.
The Muses (daughters of Memory) refresh us
in our toilsome course with sweet remembrances.
The music in my heart I bore / Long after it was heard no more.
The mustard-seed of thought is a pregnant treasury of vast results. Like the germ in the Egyptian tombs, its vitality never perishes; and its fruit will spring up after it has been buried for long ages.
The mystery of a person is ever divine to him that has a sense for the godlike.
The nation is governed by all that has tongue in the nation: democracy is virtually there.
The nation is worth nothing which does not
joyfully stake its all on its honour.
The native land of the poet's poetic powers and poetic action is the good, noble, and beautiful, which is confined to no particular province or country, and which he seizes upon and forms wherever he finds it. Therein is he like the eagle.
The natural effect of sorrow over the dead is to refine and elevate the mind.
The natural qualities pass over all others and mount upon the head.
The near explains the far.
The nearer the church the farther from God.
The nearer we approach the goal of life, the better we begin to understand the true value of our existence, and the real weight of our opinions.
The necessities of my heart always give the cold philosophisings the lie.
The necessities of things are sterner stuff than the hopes of men.
The neck on which diamonds might have worthily sparkled will look less tempting when the biting winter has hung icicles there for gems.
The negation of will and desire is the only
road to deliverance.
The nerve that never relaxes, the eye that never blenches, the thought that never wanders--these are the masters of victory.
The nerves, they are the man.
The never-absent mop in one hand, and yet no effects of it visible anywhere.
The new man is always in a new time, under new conditions; his course is the fac-simile of no prior one, but is by its nature original.
The next dreadful thing to a battle lost is a
battle won.
The night cometh, when no man can work.
The night is far spent, the day is at hand: let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light.
The night is for the day, but the day is not for the night.
The night is long that never finds the day.
The night shows stars and women in a better light.
The nobility of life is work. We live in a working world. The lazy and idle man does not count in the plan of campaign. "My Father worketh hitherto, and I work." Let that text be enough.
The noble character at certain moments may resign himself to his emotions; the well-bred, never.
The noble ones who have lived among us have not left us; they only truly came to us when they departed, and they were then first kissed by us into immortality.
The nobler and more perfect a thing is, the
slower it is in attaining maturity.
The nobler the virtue is, the more eager and generous resolution do thou express of attaining to it.
The noblest charms of music, though real and affecting, seem too confused and fluid to be collected into a distinct idea. Harmony is always understood by the crowd, and almost always mistaken by musicians.
The noblest mind the best contentment hath.
The noblest vengeance is to forgive.
The noblest works and foundations have proceeded
from childless men, which have sought to express the images of their minds where those of their bodies have failed.
The north wind driveth away rain: so doth an angry countenance a backbiting tongue.
The Now is an atom of sand, / And the Near is a perishing clod; / But Afar is as Fairy Land, / And beyond is the bosom of God.
The nurse's bread is sweeter than the mother's cake.
The oak first announces itself when, with far-sounding crash, it falls.
The object of all true policy and true economy
is, the utmost multitude of good men on every given space of ground.
The object of art is to crystallise emotion into thought and then to fix it in form.
The object of preaching is constantly to remind mankind of what mankind are constantly forgetting; not to supply the defects of human intelligence, but to fortify the feebleness of human resolutions.
The object of reading is not to dip into everything that even wise men have ever written.
The object of the poet is, and must be, to "instruct by pleasing," yet not by pleasing this man and that man; only by pleasing man, by speaking to the pure nature of man, can any real "instruction," in this sense, be conveyed.
The object of the politician is expediency,
and his duty is to adapt his measures to the often crude, undeveloped, and vacillating conception of the nation. The object, on the other hand, of the philosopher is truth, and his duty is to push every principle which he believes to be true to its legitimate consequences, regardless of the results that may follow.
The object of true religion should be to impress the principles of morality deeply in the soul.
The obligation of veracity may be made out from the direct ill consequences of lying to social happiness.
The obscure is what transcends us, and what imposes itself upon us by transcending us.
The ocean beats against the stern dumb shore, / The stormy passion of its mighty heart.
The ocean may have bounds.
The offender never pardons.
The old fox is caught at last.
The old gloomy cathedrals were good, but the great blue dome that hangs over all is better than any Cologne one.
The old never dies till this happen, till all the soul of good that was in it get itself transfused into the practical new.
The old order changeth, yielding place to
new, / And God fulfils himself in many ways, / Lest one good custom should corrupt the world.
The old prose writers wrote as if they were speaking to an audience; while among us prose is invariably written for the eye alone.
The older we get the more we must limit ourselves, if we wish to be active.
The oldest, and indeed only true, order of nobility known under the stars, is that of just men and sons of God, in opposition to unjust men and sons of Belial, which latter indeed are second oldest, and yet a very unvenerable order.
The oldest in years is not always the most experienced, and he who has suffered most has not always the best manners.
The one enemy we have in this universe is
stupidity, darkness of mind; of which darkness there are many sources, every sin a source, and probably self-conceit the chief source.
The one essential point
is to know that it is wrong; how to get out of it you can decide afterwards at your leisure.
The one exclusive sign of a thorough knowledge is the power of teaching.
The one intolerable sort of slavery, over which the very gods weep, is the slavery of the strong to the weak; of the great and noble-minded to the small and mean; the slavery of wisdom to folly.
The one prudence in life is concentration.
The one thing of value in the world is the
active soul.
The one unhappiness of a man is that he cannot work, that he cannot get his destiny as a man fulfilled.
The only competition worthy a wise man is with himself.
The only disadvantage of an honest heart is its credulity.
The only evolution of any really human interest, and worthy of any human regard, is the evolution that springs from resolution and the birth of freedom in the self-conscious soul.
The only failure a man ought to fear is failure in cleaving to the purpose he sees to be best.
The only faith that wears well, and holds its colour in all weathers, is that which is woven of conviction, and set with the sharp mordant of experience.
The only fence against the world is a thorough knowledge of it.
The only freedom which deserves the name is that of pursuing our own good in our own way, so long as we do not attempt to deprive others of this, or impede their efforts to obtain it.
The only genuine Romance for grown persons
is Reality.
The only gift is a portion of thyself.
The only happiness a brave man ever troubled himself with asking much about was, happiness enough to get his work done.
The only liberty that is valuable is a liberty connected with order.
The only means of overcoming adversities is a fresh activity.
The only medicine which does women more
good than harm is dress.
The only ornament of old age is virtue.
The only poetry is history, could we tell it aright.
The only point now is what a man weighs in the scale of humanity; all the rest is nought. A coat with a star, and a chariot with six horses, at all events, imposes on the rudest multitude only, and scarcely that.
The only progress which is really effective depends, not upon the bounty of Nature, but upon the energy of man.
The only satisfaction of the will is that it
encounters with no resistance.
The only school of genuine moral sentiment is society between equals.
The only serious and formidable thing in Nature is will.
The only sin which we never forgive in each other is difference of opinion.
The only solid instruction is that which the pupil brings from his own depths; the true instruction is not that which transmits notions wholly formed, but that which renders him capable of forming for himself good opinions.
The only substance properly so called is the
soul.
The only teller of news is the poet.
The only thing grief has taught me is to know how shallow it is.
The only true principle for humanity is justice.
The only true source of politeness is consideration.
The only victory over love is flight.
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
The only way to understand the difficult parts of the Bible is first to read and obey the easy ones.
The opinions of men are as many and as different as their persons; the greatest diligence and most prudent conduct can never please them all.
The opportunity to do mischief is found a hundred times a day, and that of doing good once a year.
The ordinary man places life's happiness in
things external to him; his centre of gravity is not in himself.
The ornament of a house is the friends who frequent it.
The outer passes away; the inmost is the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever.
The over-curious are not over-wise.
The owl of ignorance lays the egg of pride.
The owl sees the sunshine and winks in its
nest.
The ox lies still while the geese are hissing.
The pain of an unfilled wish is small in comparison with that of repentance; for the one stands in presence of the vast open future, whilst the other has the irrevocable past closed behind it.
The pain that any one actually feels is still of all others the worst.
The pain which conscience gives the man who has already done wrong is soon got over. Conscience is a coward; and those faults it has not strength enough to prevent, it seldom has justice enough to accuse.
The pains of power are real, its pleasures are
imaginary.
The painful warrior famousèd for fight, / After a thousand victories, once foil'd, / Is from the books of honour razèd quite, / And all the rest forgot for which he toil'd.
The painter should grind his own colours; the architect work in the mason's yard with his men; the master-manufacturer be himself a more skilful operator than any man in his mills; and the distinction between one man and another be only in experience and skill, and the authority and wealth which these must naturally and justly obtain.
The parasite courtier in the palace is the legitimate father of the tyrant.
The parcel of books, if they are well chosen, ... awakens within us the diviner mind, and rouses us to a consciousness of what is best in others and ourselves.
The pardon of an offence must, as a benefit
conferred, put the offender under an obligation; and thus direct advantage at once accrues by heaping coals of fire on the head.
The particular is the universal seen under special limitations.
The passions are only exaggerated vices or virtues.
The passions are the only orators who never fail to persuade.
The passions, by grace of the supernal and also of the infernal powers (for both have a hand in it), can never fail us.
The passions may be likened to blood horses,
that need training and the curb only to enable them when they carry to achieve most glorious triumphs.
The passions of mankind are partly protective, partly beneficent, like the chaff and grain of the corn; but none without their use, none without nobleness when seen in balanced unity with the rest of the spirit which they are charged to defend.
The passions rise higher at domestic than at imperial tragedies.
The past alone is eternal and unchangeable like death, and yet at the same time warm and joy-giving like life.
The past and future are veiled; but the past wears the widow's veil, the future the virgin's.
The past at least is secure.
The past is all holy to us; the dead are all
holy; even they that were base and wicked when alive.
The past is an unfathomable depth, / Beyond the span of thought; 'tis an elapse / Which hath no mensuration, but hath been / For ever and for ever.
The past is to us a book sealed with seven seals
The path of falsehood is a perplexing maze.
The path of nature is indeed a narrow one, and it is only the immortals that seek it, and, when they find it, they do not find themselves cramped therein.
The path of sorrow, and that path alone, /
Leads to the land where sorrow is unknown.
The path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.
The path of things is silent.
The paths of glory lead but to the grave.
The pathetic almost always consists in the detail of little circumstances.
The peace of heaven is theirs who lift their
swords / In such a just and charitable war.
The peacemakers shall be called the children of God.
The peevish, the niggard, the dissatisfied, the passionate, the suspicious, and those who live upon others' means, are for ever unhappy.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The pencil of the Holy Ghost hath laboured more in describing the afflictions of Job than the felicities of Solomon.
The people have the right to murmur, but they
have also the right to be violent, and their silence is the lesson of kings.
The people of England are the most enthusiastic in the world.
The people of this world having been once deceived, suspect deceit in truth itself.
The people once belonged to the kings; now the kings belong to the people.
The perfect flower of religion opens in the soul only when all self-seeking is abandoned.
The perfection of art is to conceal art.
The perfection of conversation is not to play a regular sonata, but, like the Æolian harp, to await the inspiration of the passing breeze.
The perfection of spiritual virtue lies in being always all there, a whole man present in every movement and moment.
The period of faith must alternate with the period of denial; the vernal growth, the summer luxuriance of all opinions, spiritual representations and creations must be followed by, and again follow, the autumnal decay, the winter dissolution.
The persistent aspirations of the human race are to society what the compass is to the ship. It sees not the shore, but it guides to it.
The person who in company should pretend
to be wiser than others, I am apt to regard as illiterate and ill-bred.
The person who is contented to be often obliged ought not to be obliged at all.
The person whose clothes are extremely fine I am too apt to consider as not being possessed of any superiority of fortune, but resembling those Indians who were found to wear all the gold they have in the world in a bob at the nose.
The pest of society is egotists. There are dull and bright, sacred and profane, coarse and fine egotists. It is a disease that, like influenza, falls on all constitutions.
The philosopher is he to whom the highest has descended, and the lowest has mounted up; who is the equal and kindly brother of all.
The philosopher must station himself in the
middle.
The philosophy of grumbling is great, but not intricate ... the proof that there is something wrong, and that a sentient human being is aware of it.
The philosophy of one century is the common-sense of the next.
The philosophy of six thousand years has not searched the chambers and magazines of the soul.
The phœnix, Hope, can wing her flight / Through the vast deserts of the skies, / And still defying fortune's spite, / Revive and from her ashes rise.
The pillow is a dumb sibyl.
The pilot of the Galilean lake; / Two massy keys he bore, of metals twain, / The golden opes, the iron shuts amain.
The pious and just honouring of ourselves may be thought the radical moisture and fountain-head from whence every laudable and worthy enterprise issues forth.
The pious have always a more intimate connection with each other than the wicked, though externally the relationship may not always prosper as well.
The pious-hearted are cared for by the gods; and by men honoured and worshipped as divinities, when once they have by death stripped off for ever their week-day garments.
The pitcher goes so often to the water that it
comes home broken at last.
The place once trodden by a good man is hallowed. After a hundred years his word and actions ring in the ears of his descendants.
The plainer the dress, with greater lustre does beauty appear.
The plainest man that can convince a woman that he is really in love with her, has done more to make her in love with him than the handsomest man, if he can produce no such conviction. For the love of woman is a shoot, not a seed, and flourishes most vigorously only when ingrafted on that love which is rooted in the breast of another.
The plea of ignorance will never take away our responsibilities.
The pleasure of despising, at all times and in itself a dangerous luxury, is much safer after the toil of examining than before it.
The pleasure of talking is the inextinguishable passion of woman, coeval with the act of breathing.
The pleasure-seeker is not the pleasure-finder;
those are the happiest men who think least about happiness.
The pleasure we feel in criticising robs us of that of being deeply moved by very beautiful things.
The pleasure we feel in music springs from the obedience which is in it, and it is full only as the obedience is entire.
The pleasure which strikes the soul must be derived from the beauty and congruity it sees or conceives in those things which the sight or imagination lay before it.
The pleasures of the world are deceitful; they promise more than they give. They trouble us in seeking them, they do not satisfy us when possessing them, and they make us despair in losing them.
The plenty of the poorest place is too great;
the harvest cannot be gathered.
The poet bestrides the clouds, the wise man looks up at them.
The poet can never have far to seek for a subject; for him the ideal world is not remote from the actual, but under it and within it; and he is a poet precisely because he can discern it there.
The poet must believe in his poetry. The fault of our popular poetry is that it is not sincere.
The poet must find all within himself while he is left in the lurch by all without.
The poet must live wholly for himself, wholly
in the objects that delight him.
The poet should seize the particular, and he should, if there is anything sound in it, thus represent the universal.
The poet's delicate ear hears the far-off whispers of eternity, which coarser souls must travel towards for scores of years before their dull sense is touched by them.
The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, / Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven, / And, as imagination bodies forth / The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen / Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing / A local habitation and a name.
The poet's heart is an unlighted torch, which gives no help to his footsteps till love has touched it with flame.
The poetry of the ancients was that of possession,
ours is that of aspiration; the former stands fast on the soil of the present, the latter hovers between memory and anticipation.
The point is not that men should have a great many books, but that they should have the right ones, and that they should use those that they have.
The pomp of death is far more terrible than death itself.
The poor are only they who feel poor.
The poor is hated even of his own neighbour.
The poor man's budget is full of schemes.
The poor wren, / The most diminutive of birds, will fight, / Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
The poor ye have always with you, but me ye have not always.
The poorer life or the rich one are but the larger or smaller (very little smaller) letters in which we write the apophthegms and golden sayings of life.
The poorest day that passes over us is the conflux of two eternities; it is made-up of currents that issue from the remotest part, and flow onwards into the remotest future.
The poorest human soul is infinite in wishes,
and the infinite universe was not made for one, but for all.
The poorest man may in his cottage bid defiance to all the forces of the crown. It may be frail, the wind may blow through it, the storm may enter, the rain may enter, but the king of England cannot enter! all his force dares not cross the threshold of that ruined tenement.
The popular ear weighs what you are, not what you were.
The popular man stands on our own level, or a hairsbreadth higher; and shows us a truth we can see without shifting our present intellectual position. The original man stands above us, and wishes to wrench us from our old fixtures, and elevate us to a higher and clearer level.
The population of the world is a conditional population; not the best, but the best that could live now.
The post of honour is the post of difficulty,
the post of danger,--of death, if difficulty be not overcome.
The power of every great people, as of every living tree, depends on its not effacing, but confirming and concluding the labours of its ancestors.
The power of faith will often shine forth the most when the character is naturally weak.
The power of fortune is confessed only by the miserable, for the happy impute all their success to prudence and merit.
The power of observing life is rare, that of drawing lessons from it rarer, and that of condensing the lesson in a pointed sentence is rarest of all.
The power, whether of painter or poet, to describe
rightly what he calls an ideal thing depends upon its being to him not an ideal but a real thing. No man ever did or ever will work well, but either from actual sight or sight of faith.
The practice of faith and obedience to some of our fellow-creatures is the alphabet by which we learn the higher obedience to heaven; and it is not only needful to the prosperity of all noble united action, but essential to the happiness of all noble living spirits.
The practice of submission to the authority of one whom one recognises as greater than one's self outweighs the chance of occasional mistake.
The praise that comes of love does not make us vain, but humble rather.
The praying soul is a gainer by waiting for an answer.
The precepts of philosophy effect not the least
benefit to one confirmed in fear.
The preparations of the heart in man and the answer of the tongue is from the Lord.
The presence of the Eternal is a presence that articulates and imparts itself in time.
The presence of the wretched is a burden to the happy; and alas! the happy still more so to the wretched.
The present holds in it both the whole past and the whole future.
The present is the only reality and the only
certainty.
The present moment is a potent divinity.
The present moment is our ain, / The neist we never saw.
The present time is not priest-ridden, but press-ridden.
The present time, youngest born of eternity, child and heir of all the past times with their good and evil, and parent of all the future, is ever a new era to the thinking man.
The press beginneth to be an oppression of the
land.
The press is a mill which grinds all that is put into its hopper.
The press is the foe of rhetoric, but the friend of reason.
The price of wisdom is above rubies.
The priest loves his flock, but the lambs more than the wethers.
The primal condition of virtue is that it shall
not know of, or believe in, any blessed islands till it find them, it may be, in due time.
The primal duties shine aloft, like stars; / The charities that soothe, and heal, and bless, / Are scattered at the feet of man, like flowers.
The primary vocation of man is a life of activity.
The prince as actual ruler is always limited
by public opinion; but what is there to limit public opinion if it holds sovereign sway?
The principal part of faith is patience.
The principal point of greatness in any state
is to have a race of military men.
The prisoner is troubled that he cannot go whither he would, and he that is at large is troubled that he does not know whither to go.
The prisoner's allowance is bread and water, but I had only the latter.
The privilege of the country is to be alone, when we like.
The problem of life is to make the ideal real, and convert the divine at the summit of the mountain into the human at its base.
The problem of philosophy is, for all that exists
conditionally, to find a ground unconditioned and absolute.
The prodigal robs his heir, the miser robs himself.
The production of something, where nothing was before, is an act of greater energy than the expansion or decoration of the thing produced.
The profession of riches without their possession leads to the worst form of poverty.
The promise given was a necessity of the past; the word broken is a necessity of the present.
The Promised Land is the land where one is
not.
The promises of God are yea and amen.
The promises of this world are, for the most part, vain phantoms; and to confide in one's self, and become something of worth and value, is the best and safest course.
The promissory lies of great men are known by shouldering, hugging, squeezing, smiling, and bowing.
The proper confidant of a girl is her father. What she is not inclined to tell her father should be told to no one, and, in nine cases out of ten, not thought of by herself.
The proper Epic of this world is no longer
"Arms and the man," much less "Shirt frills and the man;" no, it is now "Tools and the man;" that, henceforth to all time is now our Epic.
The proper power of faith is to trust
evidence, not
The proper reward of the good workman is to be "chosen."
The proper study of mankind is man.
The proper task of literature lies in the domain of belief.
The property of a man consists in
things
 (_c
The prophet is the revealer of what we are to do; the poet, of what we are to love. The former too has an eye on what we are to love; how else shall he know what we are to do?
The prosperity of our neighbours in the end is our own, and the poverty of our neighbours becomes also in the end our own.
The protection of God cannot without sacrilege be invoked but in behalf of justice and right.
The proud man often is the mean.
The proudest boast of the most aspiring philosopher
is no more than that he provides his little playfellows the greatest pastime with the greatest innocence.
The proverb says of the Genoese, that they have a sea without fish, lands without trees, and men without faith.
The proverbs of a nation furnish the index to its spirit and the results of its civilisation.
The providence of God has established such an order in the world, that of all which belongs to us, the least valuable parts can alone fall under the will of others.
The prudence of the best of hearts is often defeated by the tenderness of the best of hearts.
The prudent man may direct a state, but it
is the enthusiast who regenerates or ruins it.
The prudent part is to propose remedies for the present evils, and provisions against future events.
The public have neither shame nor gratitude.
The public highways ought not to be occupied by people demonstrating that motion is impossible.
The public is a personality that knows everything and can do nothing.
The public is the majority of a society.
The public sense is in advance of private practice.
The public? The public is just a great baby.
The pulpit only "teaches" to be honest; the market-place "trains" to over-reaching and fraud; and teaching has not a tithe of the efficiency of training.
The punishment of criminals should be of use; when a man is hanged he is good for nothing.
The punishment which the wise suffer, who
refuse to take part in the government, is to live under the government of worse men.
The pure in heart shall see God.
The purer the golden vessel the more readily is it bent; the higher worth of women is sooner lost than that of men.
The purest treasure mortal times afford / Is spotless reputation; that away, / Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
The purse is the master-organ, soul's seat, and true pineal gland of the body social.
The pyramids, doting with age, have forgotten
the names of their founders.
The quality of mercy is not strain'd; / It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven / Upon the place beneath. It is twice blest; / It blesseth him that gives and him that takes. / 'Tis mightiest in the mightiest; it becomes / The throned monarch better than his crown.
The quantity of books in a library is often a cloud of witnesses of the ignorance of the owner.
The quantity of sorrow a man has, does it not mean withal the quantity of sympathy he has, the quantity of faculty and victory he shall have? Our sorrow is the inverted image of our nobleness.
The quarrel toucheth none but us alone, / Betwixt ourselves let us decide it then.
The question is not at what door of fortune's
palace shall we enter in, but what doors does she open to us?
The question is not who is the most learned, but who is the best.
The question is this: is man an ape or angel? I, my lord, I am on the side of the angels.
The question of education is for the modern world a question of life or death, a question on which depends the future.
The question of questions (for men and nations) is--not how far they are from heaven, but whether they are going to it. (So in art) it is not the wisdom or the barbarism that you have to estimate, not the skill or the rudeness, but the tendency.
The question of the purpose of things is completely
unscientific.
The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong.
The race of mankind would perish did they cease to aid each other.
The rainbow in the morning / Is the shepherd's warning; / The rainbow at night / Is the shepherd's delight.
The rank is but the guinea's stamp, / The man's the gowd for a' that.
The ransom of a man's life are his riches.
The ray of light passes invisible through space, and only when it falls on an object is it seen.
The readiness is all.
The real man is one who always finds excuses for others, but never excuses himself.
The real men of genius were resolute workers, not idle dreamers.
The real Nimrod of this era, who alone does
any good to the era, is the rat-catcher.
The real object of education is to give children resources that will endure as long as life endures; habits that time will ameliorate, not destroy; occupation that will render sickness tolerable, solitude pleasant, age venerable, life more dignified and useful, and death less terrible.
The real object of the drama is the exhibition of human character.
The real science of political economy is that which teaches nations to desire and labour for the things that lead to life; and which teaches them to scorn and destroy the things that lead to destruction.
The really strong may bend, and be as strong as ever; it is the unsound that has only the seeming of strength, which breaks at last when it resists too long.
The reason that there is such a general outcry
against flatterers is, that there are so very few good ones.
The reason why borrowed books are so seldom returned to their owners is, that it is much easier to retain the books than what is in them.
The reason why so few marriages are happy is because young ladies spend their time in making nets, not in making cages.
The reason why the character of woman is so often misunderstood, is that it is the beautiful nature of woman to veil her soul as her charms.
The reason why we sometimes see that men of the greatest capacities are not rich, is either because they despise wealth in comparison of something else, or, at least, are not content to be getting an estate, unless they may do it in their own way, and at the same time enjoy all the pleasures and gratifications of life.
The recording angel, consider it well, is no fable, but the truest of truths; the paper tablets thou canst burn; of the "iron leaf" there is no burning.
The regeneration of society is the regeneration
of the individual by education.
The regions of eternal happiness are provided for those women who love their husbands the same in a wilderness as in a city; be he a saint, or be he sinner.
The relation of the taught to their teacher, of the loyal subject to his guiding king, is, under one shape or another, the vital element in human society.
The religion of Christ is peace and goodwill, that of Christendom war and ill-will.
The religion of Jesus, with all its self-denials, virtues, and devotions, is very practicable.
The religion of one age is the literary entertainment
of the next.
The religions of the world are the ejaculations of a few imaginative men.
The religions we call false were once true. They also were affirmations of the conscience correcting the evil customs of their times.
The religious passion is nearly always vividest where the art is weakest; and the technical skill only reaches its deliberate splendour when the ecstasy which gave it birth has passed away for ever.
The reputation of a man is like his shadow--gigantic when it precedes him, and pigmy in its proportions when it follows.
The reputation of a woman is as a crystal
mirror, shining and bright, but liable to be sullied by every breath that comes near it.
The reputation of virtuous actions past, if not kept up with an access and fresh supply of new ones, is lost and soon forgotten.
The resentment of a poor man is like the efforts of a harmless insect to sting; it may get him crushed, but cannot defend him.
The rest is silence.
The result
The revelation of thought takes man out of
servitude into freedom.
The reverence of a man's self is, next religion, the chiefest bridle of all vices.
The revolutionary outbreaks of the lower classes are the consequence of the injustice of the higher classes.
The reward of one duty is the power to fulfil another.
The rich and poor meet together: the Lord is the maker of them all.
The rich are always advising the poor; but
the poor seldom venture to return the compliment.
The rich are invited to marry by that fortune which they do not want, and the poor have no inducement but that beauty which they do not feel.
The rich becoming richer and the poor poorer, is the cry throughout the whole civilised world.
The rich devour the poor, the devil the rich, and so both are devoured.
The rich man does not feel his wealth with any vividness.
The rich man is seldom in his own halls, because
it bores him to be there, and still he returns thither, because he is no better off outside.
The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as an high wall in his own conceit.
The rich ruleth over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender.
The richest minds need not large libraries.
The riddle of the age has for each a private solution.
The ridge once gained, the path so hard of
late / Runs easy on, and level with the gate
The right divine of kings to govern wrong.
The right ear, that is fill'd with dust, / Hears little of the false or just.
The right honourable gentleman is indebted to his memory for his jests, and to his imagination for his facts.
The right law of education is that you take the most pains with the best material. Never waste pains on bad ground, but spare no labour on the good, or on what has in it the capacity of good.
The right man in the right place.
The righteous hath hope in his death.
The righteous man falls oft, / Yet falls but soft; / There may be dirt to mire him, but no stones / To crush his bones.
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them.
The "rights" of men in any form are not worth discussing; the grand point is the "mights" of men--what portion of their "rights" they have a chance of getting sorted out and realised in this confused world.
The riotous tumult of a laugh is the mob-law
of the features, and propriety the magistrate who reads the Riot Act.
The risings and sinkings of human affairs are like those of a ball which is thrown by the hand.
The river has its cataract, / And yet the waters down below / Soon gather from the foam, compact, / And, just like those above it, flow.
The river remains troubled that has not gone through a lake; the heart is impure that has not gone through a sorrow.
The road's afore you, the sky's aboon you.
The road to resolution lies by doubt.
The road to ruin is always kept in good repair, and the travellers pay the expense of it.
The road which runs without a bend / Is that
which hath a proper end.
The robb'd that smiles, steals something from the thief.
The romantic is the instinctive delight in, and admiration for, sublimity, beauty, and virtue, unusually manifested.
The root of almost every schism and heresy from which the Christian Church has suffered has been the effort of men to earn, rather than to receive, their salvation; and the reason that preaching is so commonly ineffectual is, that it calls on men oftener to work for God than to behold God working for them.
The root of sanctity is sanity. A man must be healthy before he can be holy. We bathe first, and then perfume.
The rough material of fine writing is certainly
the gift of genius; but I as firmly believe that the workmanship is the united effort of pains, attention, and repeated trial.
The rough seas that spare not any man.
The rude man requires only to see something going on. The man of more refinement must be made to feel. The man of complete refinement must be made to reflect.
The rule of the footway is clear as the light, / And none can its reason withstand; / On each side of the way you must keep to the right, / And leave those you meet the left hand.
The ruling passion, be it what it will, / The ruling passion, conquers reason still.
The running waves of eager life end on the
motionless fixed strand of death.
The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath.
The sacred wrestler, till a blessing given, / Quits not his hold, but, halting, conquers heaven.
The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination.
The saddest external condition of affairs among men, is but evidence of a still sadder internal one.
The safest and purest joys of human life rebuke
the violence of its passions; they are obtainable without anxiety and memorable without regret.
The safest words are always those which bring us most directly to facts.
The safety-valves of the heart when too much pressure is laid on.
The salve of reformation they mightily call for, but where and what the sores are which need it, as they wot full little, so they think not greatly material to search.
The same motions and muscles of the face are employed both in laughing and crying.
The Satanic school.
"The savans and the asses in the middle."
The scholar without good-breeding is a pedant; the philosopher, a cynic; the soldier, a brute; and every man disagreeable.
The schoolboy counts the time till the return of the holidays; the minor longs to be of age; the lover is impatient till he is married.
The schoolmaster is abroad.
The sea belongs to eternity, and not time,
and of that it sings its monotonous song for ever and ever.
The sea complains upon a thousand shores.
The sea does not contain all the pearls, the earth does not enclose all the treasures, and the flint-stone does not enclose all the diamonds, since the head of man encloses wisdom.
The sea moans over dead men's bones.
The sea that bares her bosom to the moon.
The sea tosses and foams to find its way up to
the cloud and wind.
The seal of truth is simplicity.
The seat of knowledge is in the head; of wisdom, in the heart. We are sure to judge wrong if we do not feel aright.
The seat of law is the bosom of God; her voice, the harmony of the world.
The second fruit of friendship is healthful and sovereign for the understanding, as the first is for the affections; for friendship maketh indeed a fair day in the affections from storm and tempests, but it maketh daylight in the understanding out of darkness and confusion of thoughts.
The secret of education lies in respecting the
pupil.
The secret of happiness is never to allow your energies to stagnate.
The secret of language is the secret of sympathy, and its full charm is possible only to the gentle.
The secret of making one's self tiresome is not to know when to stop.
The secret of man's being is still like the Sphinx's secret; a riddle that he cannot rede; and for ignorance of which he suffers death, the worst death--a spiritual.
The secret of man's nature lies in his religion,
in what he really believes about the world and his own place in it.
The secret of man's success resides in his insight into the moods of men, and his tact in dealing with them.
The secret of our existence is the connection between our sins and our sufferings.
The secret of success in society is a certain heartiness and sympathy.
The secret of success is constancy to purpose.
The secret of tiring is to say everything that can be said on the subject.
The secret things belong unto the Lord.
The secrets of great folk are just like the wild beasts that are shut up in cages. Keep them hard and fast snecked up, and it's a' very weel or better--but ance let them out, they will turn and rend you.
The secrets of life are not shown except to sympathy and likeness.
The seed of knowledge ripens but slowly in the
mind, but the flowers grow quickly.
The seeds of things are very small.

The seers are wholly a greater race than the practical purpose in his thinking, and is sincere, as Plato, or Carlyle, or Helps, becomes in some sort a seer, and must be always of infinite use in his generation.
The self-same sun that shines upon his court / Hides not his visage from our cottage, but / Looks on alike.
The sense of beauty never furthered the performance of a single duty.
The sense of death is most in apprehension, /
And the poor beetle that we tread upon / In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great / As when a giant dies.
The sense of human dignity was the chief moral agent of antiquity, and the sense of sin of mediævalism.
The sense of the infinite nature of Duty is the central part of all with us; a ray as of Eternity and Immortality, immured in dusky many-coloured Time, and its births and deaths.
The senses do not deceive us, but the judgment does.
The sentimental by and by will have to give place to the practical.
The serenity that is not felt, it can be no
virtue to feign.
The seven wise men of Greece, so famous for their wisdom all the world over, acquired all that fame each of them by a single sentence consisting of two or three words.
The "seventeenth" century is worthless to us except precisely in so far as it can be made the "nineteenth."
The severe and restrictive virtues are almost too costly for humanity.
The severity of laws impedes their execution.
The shadowed livery of the burnished sun.
The sheep slips and is up again; the sow lies down and wallows.
The shepherd in Virgil grew at last acquainted with Love, and found him a native of the rocks.
The ship that carries most sail is most buffeted by the winds and storms.
The short and simple annals of the poor.
The shorter life, less count I find, / The less
account the sooner made, / The account soon made, the merrier mind, / The merrier mind doth thought evade.
The shortest and the surest way to prove a work possible is strenuously to set about it; and no wonder if that proves it possible that for the most part makes it so.
The shortest answer is doing.
The shortest way to do many things is to do only one thing at once.
The showy lives its little hour; the true / To after times bears rapture ever new.
The shrine is that which thou dost venerate, /
And not the beast that bears it on his back.
The sight of you is good for sore eyes.
The sign of health is unconsciousness.
The sign of the poet is that he announces what no man foretold.
The significance of life is doing something.
The signs of the times.
The silence often of pure innocence / Persuades when speaking fails.
The silence that is in the starry sky.
The silent heavens have goings-on; / The stars have tasks.
The simple believeth every word.
The sin that practice burns into the blood, /
And not the one dark hour which brings remorse, / Will brand us, after, of whose fold we be.
The single snowflake--who cares for it? But a whole day of snowflakes ... who does not care for that? Private opinion is weak, but public opinion is almost omnipotent.
The slack sail shifts from side to side, / The boat, untrimm'd, admits the tide, / Borne down, adrift, at random tost, / The oar breaks short, the rudder's lost.
The sleep of a labouring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much: but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep.
The sleeping and the dead / Are but as pictures.
The slender vine twists around the sturdy
oak, for no other reason in the world but because it has not strength sufficient to support itself.
The slight that can be conveyed in a glance, in a gracious smile, in a wave of the hand, is often the "ne plus ultra" of art. What insult is so keen, or so keenly felt, as the polite insult which it is impossible to resent?

The slow wheel turns, / The cycles round themselves and grow complete, / The world's year whitens to the harvest-tide, / And one all things living, and the word is "Love."
The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason.
The sly shadow steals away upon the dial, and the quickest eye can discover no more but that it is gone.
The small courtesies sweeten life; the greater
ennoble it.
The smallest annoyances disturb us most.
The smallest bird cannot light upon the greatest tree without sending a shock to its most distant fibre.
The smallest worm will turn, being trodden on; / And doves will peck, in safeguard of their brood.
The smoke of a man's own house is better than the fire of another's.
The snail sees nothing but his own shell, and thinks it the grandest place in the world.
The social, friendly, honest man, / Whate'er he be, / 'Tis he fulfils great Nature's plan, / And none but he.
The society of women is the element of good
manners.
The soldier's trade, verily and essentially, is not slaying, but being slain ... and the reason the world honours the soldier is because he holds his life at the service of the state.
The soldier's ultimate and perennial office is to punish knaves and make idle persons work; the defence of his country against other countries, which is his office at present, will soon now be extinct.
The sole terms on which the past can become ours are its subordination to the present.
The Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.
The song that we hear with our ears is only
the song that is sung with our hearts.
The sorest tempest has the most sudden calm.
The sorrow of Yesterday is as nothing; that of To-day is bearable; but that of To-morrow is gigantic, because indistinct.
The sorrowfulest of fates is to have liberty without deserving it.
The soul is like the sun, which, to our eyes, seems to set in night; but it has in reality only gone to diffuse its light elsewhere.
The soul is not where it lives, but where it
loves.
The soul knows no persons.
The soul may be trusted to the end.
The soul moralises the past in order not to be demoralised by it, and finds in the crucible of experience only the gold that she herself has poured into it.
The soul of a man can by no agency, of men or of devils, be lost and ruined but by his own only.
The soul of man is a mirror of the mind of God.
The soul reveals itself in the voice only.... It is audible, not visible.
The soul shut up in her dark room, / Viewing so clear abroad, at home sees nothing; / But, like a mole in earth, busy and blind, / Works all her folly up, and casts it outward / To the world's open view.
The soul, / The particle of God sent down to man, / Which doth in turn reveal the world and God.
The soul, / Though made in time, survives for aye; / And, though it hath beginning, sees no end.
The soul's armour is never well set to the
heart unless a woman's hand has braced it.
The soul's dark cottage, battered and decayed, / Lets in new light through chinks that time has made.
The soul's emphasis is always right.
The sound of a kiss is not so loud as that of a cannon, but its echo lasts a deal longer.
The sphere-harmony of a Shakespeare, of a Goethe, the cathedral music of a Milton, the humble, genuine lark-notes of a Burns.
The spider taketh hold with her hands, and is
in kings' palaces.
The spirit breatheth where it willeth, and thou hearest the voice thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is it with every one that is born of the spirit.
The spirit in which we act is the highest matter.
The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
The spirit is higher than nature.
The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity;
but a wounded spirit who can bear?
The spirit of moderation should be the spirit of a lawgiver.
The spirit of poesy is the morning light, which makes the statue of Memnon sound.
The spirit only can teach.

The spirit was long ago liberated from the blind law of nature, and the task it is called to now is to unfold itself with freedom and now at length conscious of itself.
The spiritual artist too is born blind, and does
not, like certain other creatures, receive sight in nine days, but far later--perhaps never.
The spiritual is ever the inner in a man becoming outer, the invisible becoming visible, the supernatural becoming natural, the infinite becoming finite, and the eternal veiling itself in the guise of time; never an emancipation from the flesh, but ever an incarnation in flesh.
The spiritual is higher than the external; the spiritual cannot be externally authenticated.
The spiritual is the parent and first cause of the practical.
The spiritual man is free to rule his world, not his world to rule him.
The spiritual problem which Christ resolved
was pretty much this--the derivation of that from within man which was conceived to be above man, by the reperception of the forgotten truth that it was in His own image God made man. He first opened up the well within.
The spiritual universe is no more to be made out of a man's own head than the material universe or the moral universe.... No belief of ours will change the facts or reverse the laws of the spiritual universe.
The spiritual will always body itself forth in the temporal history of men; the spiritual is the beginning of the temporal, always determines the material.
The spiritual world is not closed; it is thy sense that is: thy heart is dead.
The spring can be apprehended only while it is flowing.
The springing of a serpent is from the sun; the wisdom of the serpent, whence is that?
The stars do not come to tell us it is night,
but to lay beams of light through it, and give the eye a path to walk in.
The stars shall fade away, the sun himself / Grow dim with age, and Nature sink in years; / But thou shalt flourish in immortal youth, / Unhurt amidst the war of elements, / The wrecks of matter and the crash of worlds.
The stars themselves are only bright by distance; go close, and all is earthy; but vapours illuminate there; from the breath and from the countenance of God comes light on worlds higher than they.
The "State in danger" is a condition of things which we have witnessed a hundred times; and as for the Church, it has seldom been out of "danger" since we can remember it.
The State must follow, and not lead, the character and progress of the citizen.
The statesman wishes to steer, while the politician
is satisfied to drift.
The steps of faith fall on the seeming void, and find the rock beneath.
The still, sad music of humanity.
The Stoic thought by slandering Happiness to woo her; by shunning to win her; and proudly presumed that, by fleeing her, she would turn and follow him.
The Stoic was a proud man, and not a humble, and he was content if he could only have his own soul for a prey. He did not see that the salvation of one man is impossible except in the salvation of other men, and that no man can save another unless he descend into that other's case, and be, as it were, in that other's stead.
The stoical exemption which philosophy affects
to give us over the pains and vexations of human life is as imaginary as the state of mystical quietism and perfection aimed at by some crazy enthusiast.
The stoical scheme of supplying our wants by lopping off our desires is like cutting off our feet when we want shoes.
The stomach has no ears.
The stone that lieth not in your way need not offend you.
The stone which the builders refused has become the head of the corner.
The storm of sad mischance will turn into
something that is good, if we list to make it so.
The stranger who turneth away from a house with disappointed hopes leaveth there his own offences, and departeth, taking with him all the good actions of the owner.
The stranger's greeting thou shouldst aye return!
The strawberry grows under the nettle, / And wholesome berries thrive and ripen best / Neighbour'd by fruit of baser quality.
The stream can never rise above the spring-head.
The street is full of humiliations to the proud.
The strength and power of a country depends absolutely on the quantity of good men and women in it.
The strength of aquatic animals is the waters; of those who dwell in towns, a castle; of footsoldiers, their own ground; of princes, an obedient army.
The string o'erstretched breaks, and the music flies; / The string o'erslack is dumb, and music dies; / Tune us the sitar neither low nor high.
The string that jars / When rudely touch'd, ungrateful to the sense, / With pleasure feels the master's flying fingers, / Swells into harmony and charms the hearers.
The stroke that comes transmitted through
a whole galaxy of elastic balls, is it less a stroke than if the last ball only had been struck and sent flying?
The strokes of the pen need deliberation as much as those of the sword need swiftness.
The strong man is the wise man; the man with the gift of method, of faithfulness, of valour; who has insight into what is what, into what will follow out of what, the eye to see and the hand to do.
The strong mind is nowise the mind acquainted with its strength.
The strong must build stout cabins for the weak; / Must plan and stint; must sow and reap and store; / For grain takes root though all seems bare and bleak.
_The strong thing is the just thing: this thou_                       35 
_The strong thing is the just thing: this thou_                       35  was God and Truth the maker of it, or was Satan and Falsehood?
The strong torrents, which in their own gladness fill the hills with hollow thunder and the vales with winding light, have yet their bounden charge of field to feed and barge to bear.
The strongest arm is impotent to impart momentum to a feather.
The strongest castle, tower, and town, / The golden bullet beats it down.
The strongest oaths are straw / To the fire i' the blood.
The student is to read history actively and
not passively; to esteem his own life the text, and books the commentary. Thus compelled, the muse of history will utter oracles as never to those who do not respect themselves.
The study of books is a languishing and feeble motion that hearts not, whereas conversation teaches and exercises at once.
The stumbler stumbles least in rugged way.
The style of an author is a faithful copy of his mind. If you would write a lucid style, let there first be light in your own mind; and if you would write a grand style, you ought to have a grand character.
The style of letters should not be too highly polished. It ought to be neat and correct, but no more.
The style of writing required in the great world is distinguished by a free and daring grace, a careless security, a fine and sharp polish, a delicate and perfect taste; while that fitted for the people is characterised by a vigorous natural fulness, a profound depth of feeling, and an engaging naïveté.
The sublime is in a grain of dust.
The sublime is the temple-step of religion, as
the stars are of immeasurable space. When what is mighty appears in nature--a storm, thunder, the starry firmament, death--then utter the word "God" before the child. A great misfortune, a great blessing, a great crime, a noble action, are building-sites for a child's church.
The sublime produces a beautiful calmness in the soul which, entirely possessed by it, feels as great as it ever can feel. When we compare such a feeling with that we are sensible of when we laboriously harass ourselves with some trifle, and strain every nerve to gain as much as possible for it, as it were, to patch it out, striving to furnish joy and aliment to the mind from its own creation, we then feel sensibly what a poor expedient, after all, the latter is.
The sublime, when it is introduced at a seasonable moment, has often carried all before it with the rapidity of lightning, and shown at a glance the mighty power of genius.
The sublimest canticle to be heard on earth is the stammering of the human soul on the lips of infancy.
The sublimity of wisdom is to do those things living which are to be desired when dying.
The substance of a diligent man is precious.
The substance of a man is full good when sin is not in a man's conscience.
The substantial wealth of a man consists in the earth he cultivates with its plants and animals, and in the rightly produced works of his own hands.
The success of many works is found in the relation between the mediocrity of the author's ideas and that of the ideas of the public.
The suffering man ought really "to consume his own smoke;" there is no good in emitting smoke till you have made it into fire.
The sufficiency of my merit is to know that my
merit is not sufficient.
The sun can be seen by nothing but its own light.
The sun flings out impurities, gets balefully incrusted with spots; but it does not quench itself, and become no sun at all, but a mass of darkness.
The sun! God's crest upon his azure shield, the heavens.
The sun is God.
The sun may do its duty, though your grapes
are not ripe.
The sun passeth through pollutions, and itself remains as pure as before.
The sun-steeds of time, as if goaded by invisible spirits, bear onward the light car of our destiny, and nothing remains for us but, with calm self-possession, to grasp the reins, and now right, now left, to steer the wheels, here from the precipice, and there from the rock. Whither he is hasting, who knows? Does any one consider whence he came?
The sun's power cannot draw a wandering star from its path. How then could a human being fall out of God's love!
The sunshine of life is made up of very little beams, that are bright all the time.
The superstition in which we have grown up
does not lose its hold over us even when we recognise it for such. Those who scoff at their fetters are not all free men.
The sure way to miss success is to miss the opportunity.
The surest sign of age is loneliness.
The surest test of a man's critical power is his judgment of contemporaries.
The surest way not to fail is to determine to succeed.
The surest way to have redress is to be earnest
in pursuit of it.
The surgeon practises on the orphan's head.
The sweetest music is not in the oratorio, but in the human voice when it speaks from its instant life tones of tenderness, truth, or courage.
The sweetest wine makes the sharpest vinegar.
The sweetness of the lips increaseth learning.
The sweets of love are washed with tears.
The sword is but a hideous flash in the darkness; right is an eternal ray.
The sympathy of sorrow is stronger than the sympathy of prosperity.
The system of the world is entirely one; small things and great are alike part of one mighty whole.
The tabernacle of the upright shall flourish.
The tallest trees are most in the power of the
winds, and ambitious men of the blasts of fortune.
The tanager flies through the green foliage as if he would ignite the leaves.
The teaching of art is the teaching of all things.
The teachings of Heaven are given--by sad law--in so obscure, nay, often in so ironical a manner, that a blockhead necessarily reads them wrong.
The tear of joy is a pearl of the first water; the mourning tear, only of the second.
The tears of penitents are the wine of angels.
The tell-tale out of school is of all wits the greatest fool.
The temper of the pedagogue suits not with the age; and the world, however it may be taught, will not be tutored.
The temperate man's pleasures are durable, because they are regular; and all his life is calm and serene, because it is innocent.
The tempest never rooteth up the grass, which is feeble, humble, and shooteth not up on high; but exerteth its power even to distress the lofty trees; for the great use not their might but upon the great.
The temple of our purest thoughts is--silence!
The tendency of laws should be rather to diminish the amount of evil than to produce an amount of happiness.
The tendency of party-spirit has ever been to disguise and propagate and support error.
The tender flower that lifts its head, elate, / Helpless must fall before the blasts of fate, / Sunk on the earth, defaced its lovely form, / Unless your shelter ward th' impending storm.
The tender heart o' leesome luve / The gowd and siller canna buy.
The tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
The term of man's life is half wasted before he has done with his mistakes and begins to profit by his lessons.
The test of civilisation is the estimate of woman.
The test or measure of poetic genius is to read the poetry of affairs, to fuse the circumstance of to-day.
The theatre has often been at variance with the pulpit; they ought not to quarrel. How much is it to be wished that in both the celebration of nature and of God were intrusted to none but men of noble minds!
The There is never Here.
The thin edge of the wedge is to be feared.
The thing a lie wants, and solicits from all men, is not a correct natural history of it, but the swiftest possible extinction of it, followed by entire silence about it.
The thing done avails, and not what is said about it.
The thing men get to believe is the thing they will infallibly do.
The thing that hath been, it is that which
shall be; and that which is done is that which shall be done.
The thing that is, what can be so wonderful? what, especially to us that are, can have such significance?
The thing that matters most, both for happiness and for duty, is that we should strive habitually to live with wise thoughts and right feelings.
The thing to be anxious about is not to be right with man, but with mankind.
The thing visible, nay, the thing imagined, the thing in any way conceived of as visible, what is it but a garment, a clothing of the higher, celestial invisible, "unimaginable, formless, dark with excess of bright"?
The thing which is deepest rooted in Nature,
what we call truest, that, and not the other, will be found growing at last.
The things that destroy us are injustice, insolence, and foolish thoughts; and the things which save us are justice, self-command, and true thought, which things dwell in the loving powers of the gods.
The things that threatened me, / Ne'er look'd but on my back; when they shall see / The face of Cæsar, they are vanished.
The thinker requires exactly the same light as the painter, clear, without direct sunshine, or blinding reflection, and, where possible, from above.
The thinking minds of all nations call for change. There is a deep-lying struggle in the whole fabric of society; a boundless, grinding collision of the new with the old.
The third pays for all.
The thirst for truth still remains with us, even when we have wilfully left the fountains of it.
The thorny point / Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the show / Of smooth civility.
The thought is always prior to the fact; all the facts of history pre-exist in the mind as laws.
The thought is parent of the deed.
The thought of foolishness is sin.
The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness; but of every one that is hasty only to want.
The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the Lord.
The thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts.
The thoughts we have had, the pictures we have seen, can be again called back before the mind's eye and before the imagination; but the heart is not so obliging; it does not reproduce its pleasing emotions.
The thrall in person may be free in soul.
The throne is established by righteousness.
The time for words has passed, and deeds alone suffice.
The time has been / That when the brains were out the man should die, / And there an end.
The time is out of joint; O cursèd spite, / That ever I was born to set it right.
The time of breeding is the time of doing
children good; and not as many who think they have done fairly if they leave them a good portion after their decease.
The time that bears no fruit deserves no name.
The Times are the masquerade of the Eternities; trivial to the dull, tokens of noble and majestic agents to the wise.
The timid are in fear before danger, the cowardly in danger, and the courageous after danger.
The timing of things is a main point in the dispatch of all affairs.
The tired ocean crawls along the beach sobbing a wordless sorrow to the moon.
The toil of life alone teaches us to value the blessings of life.
The tomb is the pedestal of greatness.
The tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly
evil, full of deadly poison.
The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth.
The tongue is not of steel, but it cuts.
The tongue is the worst part of a bad servant.
The tongue of the just is as choice silver.
The tongue tells the thought of one man only,
whereas the face expresses a thought of nature itself; so that every one is worth attentive observation, even though every one may not be worth talking to.
The tongue's aye quick at saying "Na," / Though a' the while the heart be dumb.
The tongues of dying men / Enforce attention like deep harmony.
The too good opinion man has of himself is the nursing-mother of all false opinions, both public and private.
The torments of martyrdoms are probably most keenly felt by the bystanders.
The total loss of reason is less deplorable than
the total depravation of it.
The training
dispositions and the morals, is the only education that deserves the name.
The trappings of a monarchy would set up an ordinary commonwealth.
The traveller who goes round the world prepares himself to pass through all latitudes and to meet all changes.
The traveller without observation is a bird without wings.
The treasures of heaven are not negations of
passion but realities of intellect, from which all passions emanate, uncurbed in their eternal glory.
The tree doth not withdraw its shade, even from the woodcutter.
The tree Igdrasil, which reaches up to heaven, goes down to the kingdom of hell; and God, the Everlasting Good and Just, is in it all.
The tree is no sooner down than every one runs for his hatchet.
The tree of knowledge is grafted upon the tree of life; and that fruit which brought the fear of death into the world, budding on an immortal stock, becomes the fruit of the promise of immortality.
The tree of knowledge is not that of life.
The tree of liberty only grows when watered by the blood of tyrants.
The tree of silence bears the fruit of peace.
The tree which yieldeth both fruit and shade is highly to be esteemed: but if Providence, perchance, may have denied it fruit, by whom is its shade refused?
The trenchant blade, Toledo trusty, / For want of fighting was grown rusty, / And ate into itself, for lack / Of somebody to hew and hack.
The trident of Neptune is the sceptre of the
planet.
The triumphs of delusion are but for a day.
The trivial round, the common task, / Will furnish all we ought to ask. / Room to deny ourselves, a road / To bring us daily nearer God.
The true and the good will be reconciled when the two are wedded to each other in the beautiful.
The true art of being agreeable is to appear well pleased with all the company, and rather to seem well entertained with them than to bring entertainment to them.
The true beginning is oftenest unnoticed and
unnoticeable.
The true "compulsory education" now needed is not catechism, but drill.
The true cross of the Redeemer is the sin and sorrow of the world.
The true end of tragedy is to purify the passions.
The true epic of our times is, not arms and the man, but tools and the man--an infinitely wider kind of epic.
The true eye for talent presupposes the true
reverence for it.
The true fire of heaven always comes from heaven direct.
The true function of intellect is not that of talking, but of understanding and discerning with a view to performing.
The true God's voice, voice of the Eternal, is in the heart of every man.
The true good
world, not to speak of any that is to come, must be bought still, as it always has been, with our toil and with our tears. That is the final doctrine, the inevitable one, not of Christianity only, but of all heroic faith and heroic being.
The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat
as intangible and indescribable as the tints of morning or evening. It is a little stardust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched.
The true historical genius, to our thinking, is that which can see the nobler meaning of the events that are near him.
The true labourer is worthy of his hire, but, in the beginning and first choice of industry, his heart must not be the heart of an hireling.
The true ladder of heaven has no steps.
The true liberty of a man consists in his finding out, or being forced to find out, the right path, and to walk therein.
The true life of man is in society.
The true life of man, like God's, lies in the ungrudging imparting of himself to alike the worthy and unworthy without fear of forfeiture or claim of reward.
The true literary man is the light of the world; the world's priest guiding it, like a sacred pillar of fire, in its dark pilgrimage through the waste of time.
The true mind of a nation, at any period, is always best ascertainable by examining that of its greatest men.
The true original ground of all disquiet is within.
The true philosophical act is annihilation of self; this is the real beginning of all philosophy; all requisites for being a disciple of philosophy point hither.
The true poet is even more than a finder or troubadour; he is a seer, a prophet, and an interpreter between the divine and the human.
The true poet, who is but the inspired thinker,
is still an Orpheus whose lyre tames the savage beasts, and evokes the dead rocks to fashion themselves into palaces and stately inhabited cities.
The true poetic soul needs but to be struck, and the sounds it yields will be music.
The true preacher can be known by this, that he deals out to the people his life--life passed through the fire of thought.
The true scholar learns from the known to unfold the unknown, and approaches more and more to being a master.
The true Shekinah is man.
The true strength of every human soul is to
be dependent on as many nobler as it can discern, and to be depended upon by as many inferior as it can reach.
The true, strong, and sound mind is the mind that can embrace equally great things and small.

The True that is identical with the Divine can never be directly known by us; we behold in symbol, in individual and related phenomena; we perceive it as incomprehensible life, which yet we cannot renounce the wish to comprehend. This is true of all the phenomena of the conceivable world.
The true university of these days is a collection of books.
The true value of a man's book is determined by what he does not write.
The true veins of wealth are purple--not in
rock, but in flesh
and consummation of all wealth is in producing as many as possible full-breathed, bright-eyed, and happy-hearted human creatures.
The true way of softening one's troubles is to solace those of others.
The truly strong mind, view it as intellect or morality, or under any other aspect, is nowise the mind acquainted with its strength.
The truly sublime is always easy, and always natural.
The truly wise man should have no keeper of his secrets but himself.
The truth shall make you free.
The truth we need is only lightly veiled, not deeply buried by the wise hand which has designed it for us.
The truth works sometimes from without as from within.
The truths of Nature are one eternal change, one infinite variety.
The two best rules for a system of rhetoric are: first, have something to say; and next, say it.
The two foes of human happiness are pain and
ennui.
The two great movers of the human mind are the desire of good and the fear of evil.
The two most beautiful things in the universe are the starry heavens above us and the feeling of duty within us.
The two most engaging powers of an author are to make new things familiar and familiar things new.
The two sources of all quack-talent are cunning and impudence.
The ultimate rule
as possible to be intelligible and transparent--no notice taken of your style, but solely of what you express by it.
The ultimate tendency of civilisation is towards barbarism.
The unconscious is the alone complete.
The Understanding is indeed thy window, too clear thou canst not make it; but Fantasy is thy eye, with its colour-giving retina, healthy or diseased.
The undiscovered country, from whose bourn / No traveller returns.
The unfortunate are loud and loquacious
in their complaints, but real happiness is content with its own silent enjoyment.
The unhappy
wrong in being so, wrong in saying so, wrong in needing help of others, wrong in not being able to help them.
The unimaginative person can neither be reverent nor kind.
The universe has three children, born at one time ... called cause, operation, and effect, or, theologically, the Father, the Spirit, and the Son. These three are equal ... and each has the power of the others latent in him.
The universe is a thought of God.
The universe is an infinite sphere, the centre
of which is everywhere, and the circumference nowhere.
The universe is but one vast symbol of God; nay, if thou wilt have it, what is man himself but a symbol of God; is not all that he does symbolical; a revelation to sense of the mystic god-given force that is in him; a "gospel of freedom," which he, the "Messias of Nature," preaches, as he can, by act and word?
The universe is full of love, but also of inexorable sternness and severity.
The universe is not dead and demoniacal, a charnel-house with spectres, but godlike, and my Father's.
The universe is one great city, full of beloved ones, human and divine, by nature endeared to each other.
The universe is that great egoist that decoys
us by the grossest bird-calls.
The universe is the realised thought of God.
The universe stands by him who stands by himself.
The universe would not be rich enough to buy the vote of an honest man.
The unlearned man knoweth not what it is to descend into himself and call himself to account; nor the pleasure of that most pleasant life which consists in our daily feeling ourselves become better.
The unlettered peasant, whose views are only directed to the narrow sphere around him, beholds Nature with a finer relish, and tastes her blessings with a keener appetite, than the philosopher whose mind attempts to grasp a universal system.
The unpastured sea hungering for calm.
The unworn spirit is strong; life is so healthful that it even finds nourishment in death.
The upper classes and people of wealth suffer most from ennui.
The Upper Crust
The Upper Ten
The upper current of society presents no certain
criterion by which we can judge of the direction in which the under-current flows.
The upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain in it.
The ups and downs of the world concern the beggar no longer.
The use of knowledge in our sex, besides the amusement of solitude, is to moderate the passions, and learn to be contented with a small expense, which are the certain effects of a studious life; and it may be preferable to that fame which men have engrossed to themselves, and will not suffer us to share.
The use of travelling is to regulate imagination by reality, and instead of thinking how things may be, to see them as they are.
The useful encourages itself, for the multitude
produce it, and no one can dispense with it; but the beautiful must be encouraged, for few can set it forth, and many need it.
The useless men are those who never change with the years.
The usurer is the greatest Sabbath-breaker, because his plough goeth every Sunday.
The utmost point and acme of honour is not merely in doing no evil, but in thinking none.
The uttered part of a man's life bears to the unuttered, unconscious part of it a small unknown proportion; he himself never knows it, much less do others.
The valiant in himself, what can he suffer? /
Or what need he regard his single woes?
The valour of a just man is to conquer the flesh, to contradict his own will, ... to contemn the flatteries of prosperity, and inwardly to overcome the fears of adversity.
The valour that struggles is better than the weakness that endures.
The value of a man, as of a horse, consists in your being able to bridle him, or, what is better, in his being able to bridle himself.
The value of a thing is its life-giving power.
The vanity of loving fine clothes and new
fashions, and valuing ourselves by them, is one of the most childish pieces of folly that can be.
The veneration we have for many things entirely proceeds from their being carefully concealed.
The very head and front of my offending / Hath this extent, no more.
The very joy of a true man's heart is to admire, when he can; nothing so lifts him from all his mean imprisonments, were it but for moments, as true admiration.
The very meanest things are made supreme / With innate ecstasy.
The very nature of the dilettanti is that they
have no idea of the difficulties which lie in a subject, and always wish to undertake something for which they have no capacity.
The very pain of loving is all other joys before.
The very society of joy redoubles it, so that, whilst it lights upon my friend, it rebounds upon myself, and the brighter his candle burns the more easily will it light mine.
The vessel that will not obey her helm will have to obey the rocks.
The vice of our housekeeping is that it does not hold man sacred.
The vices we scoff at in others laugh at us
within ourselves.
The victories of character are instant, and victories for all.
"The victory of Miltiades does not suffer me to sleep."
The violets and the mayflowers are as the inscriptions or vignettes of spring. It always makes a pleasant impression on us when we open again at these pages of the book of life, its most charming chapter.
The virtue of great souls is justice
The virtue of justice consists in moderation,
as regulated by wisdom.
The virtue of man is, in a word, the great proof of God.
The virtue of prosperity is temperance; the virtue of adversity is fortitude; which in morals is the more heroical virtue.
The virtue of sex is the occasion of mutual teaching; the woman preaching love in the ears of justice, and the man justice in the ears of love.
The virtue of the man who lives according to the precepts of reason shows itself equally great in avoiding as in overcoming dangers.
The virtuous delight in the virtuous; but he who is destitute of the practice of virtue delighteth not in the virtuous. The bee retireth from the forest to the lotus, whilst the frog is destitute of shelter.
The virtuous man, from his justice and the affection he hath for mankind, is the dispeller of sorrow and pain.
The virtuous soul is pure and unmixed light, springing from the body as a flash of lightning darts from the cloud; the soul that is carnal and immersed in sense, like a heavy and dank vapour, can with difficulty be kindled, and caused to raise its eyes heavenward.
The visible creation is the terminus or the circumference of the invisible world.
The vitality of man is great.
The voice of conscience is so delicate that it is easy to stifle it; but it is also so clear that it is impossible to mistake it.
The voice of prophecies is like that of whispering-places; they who are near hear nothing, those at the first extremity will know all.
The voice of the majority is no proof of justice.
The voice of the people ought always to meet with attention, though it does not always claim obedience.
The vulgar estimate themselves by what they
do; the noble by what they are.
The vulgar great are comprehended and adored, because they are in reality on the same moral plane with those who admire; but he who deserves the higher reverence must himself convert the worshipper.
The vulgar keep no account of your hits, but of your misses.
The wail of grief is more sympathetic than the shout of triumph.
The walking of man and all animals is a falling forward.
The want of belief is a defect which ought to
be concealed when it cannot be overcome.
The want of occupation is no less the plague of society than of solitude.
The want of perception is a defect which all the virtues of the heart cannot supply.
The warl'ly race may riches chase, / And riches still may flee them; / And though at last they catch them fast, / Their hearts can ne'er enjoy them.
The watchful mother tarries nigh, / Though sleep has clos'd her infant's eye.
The way in which we form our ideas gives
character to our minds.
The way of the superior man is threefold--virtuous, he is free from anxieties; wise, he is free from perplexities; bold, he is free from fear.
The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the Lord.
The way of the world is to make laws, but follow customs.
The way of this world is to praise dead saints and persecute living ones.
The way to avoid evil is not by maiming our
passions, but by compelling them to yield their vigour to our moral nature.
The way to avoid the imputation of impudence is not to be ashamed of what we do, but never to do what we ought to be ashamed of.
The way to be original is to be healthy.
The way to get rid of wretchedness is to despise it; to conquer the devil is to defy him; to gain heaven is to turn your back upon it, and be as unflinching as the gods themselves. Satan may be roasted in his own flames; Tophet may be exploded with its own sulphur.
The way to heaven is set with briars and thorns; and they who arrive at the kingdom travel over craggy rocks and comfortless deserts.
The way to make thy son rich is to fill / His
mind with rest, before his trunk with riches.
The way to mend the bad world is to create the right world.
The way to wealth is as plain as the way to market; it depends chiefly on two words--industry and frugality.
The way to write quickly is to write well.
The way, truth, and life have been found in Christianity, and will not now be found outside of it.
The way's not easy where the prize is great.
The ways in which most men get their living, that is, live, are mere makeshifts, and a shirking of the real business of life; chiefly because they do not know, but partly because they do not mean better.
The weakest goes to the wall.
The weakest spot in every man is where he thinks himself to be the wisest.
The wealth of a country is in its good men and women, and in nothing else.
The wealth of a man is the number of things
which he loves and blesses, which he is loved and blessed by.
The wealth of both Indies seems in great part but an accessory to the command of the seas.
The wealth of both the Indies cannot redeem one single opportunity which you have once let slip.
The wealth of the land / Comes from the forge and the smithy and mine, / From hammer and chisel, and wheel and band, / And the thinking brain and the skilful hand.
The wealth we cannot wisely administer is an encumbrance.
The weariest and most loathéd worldly life, /
That age, ache, penury, and imprisonment / Can lay on nature, is a paradise / To what we fear of death.
The wearisome is in permanence here.
The weary night o' care and grief / May hae a joyful morrow.
 (_
The web of this world is woven of necessity and contingency; the reason of man places itself between them, and knows how to rule them both. It treats the necessary as the ground of its existence; the contingent it knows how to direct, lead, and utilise; and it is only while reason stands firm and steadfast that man deserves to be called the god of the earth. Woe to him who has accustomed himself from his youth to incline to find something arbitrary in what is necessary, who would fain ascribe a kind of reason to the contingent, which it were even a religion to follow; what is that but to disown one's own understanding, and to give loose reins to one's inclinations? We imagine it piety and to allow ourselves to be determined by agreeable accidents, and finally give to the results of such a vacillating life the name of Divine guidance.
The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill together; our virtues would be proud if our faults whipped them not, and our crimes would despair if they were not cherished by our virtues.
The wedge will rend rocks; but its edge must be sharp and single; if it is double, the wedge is bruised in pieces, and will rend nothing.
The wheel is always in motion, and the spoke which is uppermost will soon be under; therefore mix trembling with all your joy.
The whole art of war consists in getting at
what is on the other side of the hill, or, in other words, in learning what we do not know from what we do.
The whole course of things goes to teach us faith.
The whole difference between a man of genius and other men ... is that the former remains in great part a child, seeing with the large eyes of children, in perpetual wonder, not conscious of much knowledge--conscious rather of infinite ignorance, and yet infinite power.
The whole economy of nature is bent on expression.
The whole interest of history lies in the fortunes of the poor.
The whole function of the artist in the world is
to be a seeing and a feeling creature; to be an instrument of such tenderness and sensitiveness that no shadow, no hue, no line, no instantaneous and evanescent expression of the visible things around him, nor any of the emotions which they are capable of conveying to the spirit which has been given him, shall either be left unrecorded, or fade from the book of record.
The whole man to one thing at a time.
The whole of chivalry and of heraldry is in courtesy.
The whole past is the possession of the present.
The whole spiritual universe exists only in process--what Hegel calls "Der Process des Geistes"--the process of the spirit, that is to say, not as become, but as becoming; and if it once ceases to become, it ceases as such to be.
The whole universe is at all moments saying
"Nay" to the Spirit of God, and God's Spirit is at all moments saying "Yea" to the stolid "Nay" of the universe, which would fain be let alone; but stubborn as the material looks and is, it has to obey, and does obey, the voice of God.
The whole world is, properly speaking, a tragic
The whole world of truth and conscience is nothing without I.
The wide pasture is but separate spears of grass; the sheeted bloom of the prairies but isolated flowers.
The wife can carry more out of the house in her apron than the man can bring in on a harvest-waggon.
The wife is the key of the house.
The wife that expects to have a good name / Is always at home as if she were lame; / And the mind that is honest, her chiefest delight, / Is still to be doing from morning till night.
The will appears without its mask only in the affections and the passions.
The willow which bends to the tempest often escapes better than the oak which resists it.
The wind that has its nest in trees.
The winds and the waves are always on the
side of the ablest navigators.
The winter of our discontent.
The wisdom of life is in preventing all the evil we can, and using what is inevitable to the best purpose.
The wisdom of nations lies in their proverbs, which are brief and pithy. Collect and learn them; they are notable measures and directions for human life; you have much in little; they save time in speaking; and upon occasion may be the fullest and safest answers.
The wisdom of the wise and the experience of ages may be preserved by quotation.
The wise are instructed by reason, ordinary
minds by experience, the stupid by necessity, and brutes by instinct.
The wise are polite all the world over, but fools are only polite at home.
The wise are those who travel through error to truth; the foolish are those who persist in their error.
The wise grumbler ... is a public benefactor.
The wise have all ever said the same thing, and the fools, who are always in the majority, have always done just the opposite.
The wise in heart shall be called the prudent.
The wise man always looks to the degree of his indulgences.
The wise man can dispense with the favour of the mighty, but the mighty cannot dispense with the teaching of the wise.
The wise man does not grasp at what is far off in order to find what is near, and his hand does not grasp at the stars in order to kindle light.
The wise man, even destitute of riches, enjoyeth elevated and very honourable stations; whilst the wretch, endowed with wealth, acquireth the post of disgrace.
The wise man expects everything from himself; the fool looks to others.
The wise man had rather be envied for providence than pitied for prodigality.
The wise man has long ears and a short tongue.
The wise man knows his master; always some
creature larger than himself, some law holier than himself.
The wise man knows that he does not know; the ignoramus thinks he knows.
The wise man may strive to conquer, but he should never fight; because victory, it is observed, cannot be constant to both combatants.
The wise man moveth with one foot, and standeth fast with the other. A man should not quit one place until he hath fixed upon another.
The wise man must go to the foolish, else would his wisdom go for nought, since the foolish never come to the wise.
The wise man often shuns society for fear of
being bored.
The wise man ought to despise glory, but not honour. Honour is but seldom where glory is, and glory almost more rarely still where honour is.
The wise man should study the acquisition of science and riches as if he were not subject to sickness and death; but to the duties of religion he should attend as if death had seized him by the hair.
The wise man will commit no business of importance to a proxy when he may do it himself.
The wise men of old have sent most of their morality down the stream of time in the light skiff of apothegm or epigram.
The wise through excess of wisdom is made a
fool.
The wise weigh their words in a balance for gold.
The wise will determine from the gravity of the case; the irritable, from sensibility to oppression; the high-minded, from disdain and indignation at abusive power in unworthy hands.
The wiser mind / Mourns less for what age takes away / Than what it leaves behind.
The wisest at most observe only how fate leads them, and are content.
The wisest doctor is gravelled by the inquisitiveness
of a child.
The wisest, happiest of our kind are they / That ever walk content with Nature's way.
The wisest is omnipresent, and reveals His secrets universally to the seeing eye and the hearing ear. The revelation in all its fullness is nowhere wanting, only the sense to discern it, and the courage to be true to it.
The wisest man the warl' e'er saw, / He dearly lo'ed the lasses O.
The wisest men are wise to the full in death.
The wisest, most melodious voice cannot in
these days pass for a divine one; the word "inspiration" still lingers, but only in the shape of a poetic figure, from which the once earnest, awful, and soul-subduing sense has vanished without return.
The wisest of us must, for by far the most part, judge like the simplest; estimate importance by mere magnitude, and expect that which strongly affects our own generation, will strongly affect those that are to follow.
The wisest truly is, in these times, the greatest.
The wisest woman you talk with is ignorant of something that you know, but an elegant woman never forgets her elegance.
The wish was father to the thought.
The wished-for comes too late.
The wishing-gate opens into nothing.
The wit of language is so miserably inferior to the wit of ideas that it is deservedly driven out of good company.
The wit of one man, and the wisdom of many.
The wit one wants spoils what one has.
The woman and the soldier who do not defend
the first pass will never defend the last.
The woman that deliberates is lost.
The woman's cause is man's: they rise or sink / Together.
The womankind will not drill.
The women are quick enough--they're quick enough. They know the rights of a story before they hear it, and can tell a man what his thoughts are before he knows 'em himself.
The word is always bolder than the deed.
The Word is very nigh unto thee, in thy mouth, and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it.
The word of a gentleman is as good as his bond--sometimes better.
The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters, and the well-spring of wisdom as a flowing brook.
The words of a tale-bearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
The words of men are like the leaves of trees;
when they are too many they hinder the growth of the fruit.
The words of the wise are as goads.
The words that a father speaks to his children in the privacy of home are not heard by the world, but, as in whispering-galleries, they are clearly heard at the end and by posterity.
The work an unknown good man has done is like a vein of water flowing hidden under ground, secretly making the ground green; it flows and flows, it joins itself with other veins and veinlets; one day it will start forth as a visible perennial well.
The work of righteousness shall be peace.
The work of science is to substitute facts for appearances, and demonstrations for impressions.
The works of the great poets have only been read for most part as the multitude read the stars, at most, astrologically, not astronomically.
The world can never give / The bliss for which we sigh; / 'Tis not the whole of life to live, / Nor all of death to die.
The world cannot be governed without juggling.
The world cannot do without great men, but great men are very troublesome to the world.
The world considers eccentricity in great things genius: in small things, folly.
The world does not progress so quickly as a man grows old.
The world exists by change, and but for that / All matter would to chaos back / To form a pillar for a sleeping god.
The world exists for the education of each
man.
The world exists only by the strength of its silent virtue.
The world goes up, and the world goes down, / And the sunshine follows the rain; / And yesterday's sneer, and yesterday's frown, / Can never come over again.
The world grows more majestic, but man grows less.
The world has no business with my life; the world will never know my life, if it should write and read a hundred biographies of me.
The world has to obey him who thinks and
sees in the world.
The world is a carcase, and they who gather round it are dogs.
The world is a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel.
The world is a grand book from which to become wiser.
The world is a looking-glass, and gives back to every man the reflection of his own face. Frown at it, and it will in turn look sourly upon you; laugh at it and with it, and it is a jolly kind companion.
The world is a prison.
The world is a thing that man must learn to despise, and even to neglect, before he can learn to reverence it, and work in it and for it.
The world is a wheel, and it will all come round right.
The world is all barren to him who will not cultivate the fruit it offers.
The world is always ready to receive talent with open arms. Very often it does not know what to do with genius. Talent is a docile creature. It bows its head meekly while the world slips the collar over it. It backs into the shafts like a lamb.
The world is an excellent judge in general,
but a very bad one in particular.
The world is an old woman, that mistakes any gilt farthing for a gold coin; whereby, being often cheated, she will henceforth trust nothing but the common copper.
The world is as you take it.
The world is but an allegory; the idea is more real than the fact.
The world is content with words; few think of searching into the nature of things.
The world is everywhere perfect except where
man comes with his pain.
The world is fain to sully what is resplendent, and to drag down to the dust what is exalted.
The world is for him who has patience.
The world is glorious to look at, but dreadful in reality; it is one thing as a drama to a spectator, quite another thing to the actors in the plot, for in it the will is thwarted at every turn.
The world is governed much more by opinion than by laws.
The world is governed too much.
The world is not our peers, so we challenge the jury.
The world is not thy friend, nor the world's law.
The world is not to be despised but as it is compared with something better. Company is in itself better than solitude, and pleasure better than indolence.
The world is nothing but a wheel; in its whole periphery it is everywhere similar, but, nevertheless, it appears to us so strange, because we ourselves are carried round with it.
The world is nothing; the man is all.
The world is only governed by self-interest.
The world is so busied with selfish pursuits, ambition, vanity, interest, or pleasure, that very few think it worth their while to make any observation on what passes around them, except where that observation is a sucker, or branch of the darling plant they are rearing in their fancy.
The world is still deceived with ornament. / In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt, / But, being seasoned with a gracious voice, / Obscures the show of evil? In religion, / What damnéd error but some sober brow / Will bless it and approve it with a text, / Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?
The world is too much with us; late and soon, / Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers; / Little we see in Nature that is ours.
The world is undone by looking at things at a
distance.
The world is upheld by the veracity of good men; they make the earth wholesome.
The world is wide enough for all to live and let live, and every one has an enemy in his own talent, who gives him quite enough to do. But no! one gifted man and one talented persecutes another ... and each seeks to make the other hateful.
The world is wider than any of us think.
The world knows nothing of its greatest men.
The world looks at ministers out of the pulpit to know what they mean when in it.
The world ... may overlook most of us; but "reverence thyself."
The world never let a man bless it but it first
fought him.
The world of Nature for every man is the fantasy of himself; this world is the multiplex "image of his own dream."
The world of reality has its limits; the world of imagination is boundless. Not being able to enlarge the one, let us contract the other; for it is from their difference alone that all the evils arise which render us really unhappy.
The world of thought must remain apart from the world of action, for if they once coincided the problem of life would be solved, and the hope which we call heaven would be realised on earth. And therefore men "Are cradled into poetry by wrong; / They learn in suffering what they teach in song."
The world owes all its onward impulses to men ill at ease.
The world owes infinitely more to those who
have no history than to those who have; and the silent noble ones, who have enriched and exalted it by their mere presence, form a much grander and greater host than those do whose names stand emblazoned in written story, and are the loud boast of all.
The world remains ever the same.
The world seldom offers us any choice between solitude on the one hand and vulgarity on the other.
The world-spirit is a good swimmer, and storms and waves cannot drown him.
The world still wants its poet-priest, who shall not trifle with Shakespeare, the player, nor shall grope in graves with Swedenborg, the mourner; but who shall see, speak, and act with equal inspiration.
The world that surrounds you is the magic
glass of the world within you. To know yourself you have only to set down a true statement of those that ever loved or hated you.
The world throws its life into a hero or a shepherd, and puts him where he is wanted. Dante and Columbus were Italians in their time; they would be Russians or Americans to-day.
The world truly exists only in the presence of man, acts only in the passion of man. The essence of light is in his eyes--the centre of force in his soul--the pertinence of action in his deeds.
The world, which took but six days to make, is like to take six thousand to make out.
The world's a bubble, and the life of man less than a span.
The world's a room of sickness, where each
heart / Knows its own anguish and unrest! / The truest wisdom there, and noblest art, / Is his who skills of comfort best.
The world's a sea.
The world's a wood, in which all lose their way, / Though by a different path each goes astray.
The world's battle-fields have been in the heart chiefly. More heroism has there been displayed in the household and in the closet, I think, than on the most memorable military battle-fields of history.
The world's great men have not commonly been great scholars, nor its great scholars great men.
The world's wealth is its original men; by
these and their works it is a world and not a waste; the memory and record of what Men it loves--this is the sum of its strength, its sacred "property for ever," whereby it upholds itself and steers forward, better or worse, through the yet undiscovered deep of Time.
The worse the man, the better the soldier; if soldiers be not corrupt, they ought to be made so.
The worse things are, the better they are.
The worship of beauty apart from the soul becomes an idolatry enkindling desire instead of a reverence awakening devotion.
The worst deluded are the self-deluded.
The worst education which teaches self-denial
is better than the best which teaches everything else, and not that.
The worst of madmen is a saint run mad.
The worst of many is that their goodness is distributed rather than concentrated. They are like a sheet of water instead of being like a running stream, which can be used to turn a wheel.
The worst superstition is to consider our own the most tolerable.
The worst wheel in the waggon creaks the loudest.
The worst wild beast is called "Tyrant," and
the "Flatterer" the worst tame one.
The worth of a state, in the long-run, is the worth of the individuals composing it.
The wrath of brothers is fierce and devilish.
The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God.
The wretched have no friends.
The wretchedness which fate has rendered
voiceless and tuneless is not the least wretched, but the most.
The wrinkles of the heart are more indelible than those of the brow.
The writer of a book, is not he a preacher preaching not to this parish or that, on this day or that, but to all men in all times and places?
The wronged side is always the safest.
The young disease, that must subdue at length, / Grows with his growth, and strengthens with his strength.
The young mind is naturally pliable and imitative,
but in a more advanced state it grows rigid, and must be warmed and softened before it will receive a deep impression.
The young talk generously of relieving the old of their burdens, but the anxious heart is to the old when they see a load on the back of the young.
The youth gets together his materials to build a bridge to the moon, or perchance a palace on the earth; at length middle-aged, he concludes to build a woodshed with them.
The youth of the soul is everlasting, and eternity is youth.
Their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven.
Their chief pleasure is being displeased.
Their only labour was to kill the time, / And labour dire it is, and weary woe.
Their own will to all men, all their will to women.
Their strength is to sit still.
Theirs not to make reply, / Theirs not to reason why, / Theirs but to do or die.
Them as ha' never had a cushion don't miss it.
Then draw we nearer day by day, / Each to his brethren, all to God; / Let the world take us as she may, / We must not change our road.
Then fare-ye-weel, auld Nickle Ben, / Oh wad ye tak' a thought and men', / Ye aiblins
Then fare-ye-weel, auld Nickle Ben, / Oh wad ye tak' a thought and men', / Ye aiblins 
Then fare-ye-weel, auld Nickle Ben, / Oh wad ye tak' a thought and men', / Ye aiblins  I'm wae to think upon yon den / E'en for your sake.
Then gently scan your brother man, / Still gentler sister woman; / Though they may gang a kennin' wrang, / To step aside is human.
Then in the strife the youth puts forth his powers, / Knows what he is, and feels himself a man.
Then let us pray that come it may, / As come
it will for a' that, / That sense an' worth, o'er a' the earth, / May bear the gree and a' that.
Then was I as a tree / Whose boughs did bend with fruit; but, in one night, / A storm, or robbery, call it what you will, / Shook down my mellow hangings, nay, my leaves, / And left me bare to weather.
Theology is anthropology.
Theoretical principles must sometimes be suffered to give way for the sake of practical advantages.
Theories of genius are the peculiar constructions of our philosophical times; ages of genius have passed away, and they left no other record than their works.
Theories are very thin and unsubstantial; experience
only is tangible.
Theories which do not connect measures with men are not theories for this world.
Theory and practice always act upon one another. It is possible to construe from what we do what we think, and from what we think what we will do.
Theory in and by itself is of no use except in so far as it proves to us the connection
Theory in and by itself is of no use except in so far as it proves to us the connection (_Zusammenhang_) 
Theory in and by itself is of no use except in so far as it proves to us the connection (_Zusammenhang_)  phenomena.
There are a thousand occasions for sorrow,
and a hundred for fear that day by day assail the fool; not so the wise man.
There are always more tricks in a town than are talked of.
There are at bottom but two possible religions--that which rises in the moral nature of man, and which takes shape in moral commandments, and that which grows out of the observance of the material energies which operate in the external universe.
There are attractions in modest diffidence above the force of words. A silent address is the genuine eloquence of sincerity.
There are but three classes of men--the retrograde, the stationary, and the progressive.
There are but two ways of paying debt--increase
of industry in raising income; increase of thrift in laying it out.
There are cases where little can be said and much must be done.
There are certain things in which mediocrity is not to be endured, such as poetry, music, painting, public speaking.
There are certain times in our life when we find ourselves in circumstances, that not only press upon us, but seem to weigh us down altogether. They give us, however, not only the opportunity, but they impose on us the duty of elevating ourselves, and thereby fulfilling the purpose of the Divine Being in our creation.
There are charms made only for distant admiration. No spectacle is nobler than a blaze.
There are cloudy days for the mind as well as
for the world, and the man who has the most genius is twenty times a day in the clouds.
There are depths in the soul which are deeper than hell.
There are enough unhappy on this earth.
There are faces so fluid with expression that we can hardly find what the mere features are.
There are falsehoods which are not lies ... which is the case in parables, fables, &c.... In such instances no confidence is destroyed, because none was reposed; no promise to speak the truth is violated, because none was given.
There are few circumstances in which it is not
best either to hide all or to tell all.
There are few faces that can afford to smile. A smile is sometimes bewitching; in general vapid; often a contortion.
There are few men so obstinate in their atheism whom a pressing danger will not reduce to an acknowledgment of the Divine power.
There are few persons to whom truth is not a sort of insult.
There are few things that are worthy of anger, and still fewer that can justify malignity.
There are few thoughts likely to come across ordinary men which have not already been expressed by greater men in the best possible way; and it is a wiser, more generous, more noble thing to remember and point out the perfect words than to invent poorer ones, wherewith to encumber temporarily the world.
There are few who, either by extraordinary endowment or favour of fortune, have enjoyed the opportunity of deciding what mode of life in especial they would wish to embrace.
There are few wild beasts more to be dreaded than a communicative man having nothing to communicate.
There are fewer students of man than of geometry.
There are forty men of wit for one of sense;
and he that will carry nothing about him but gold, will be every day at a loss for want of ready change.
There are heads sometimes so little that there is no room for wit, sometimes so long that there is no wit for so much room.
There are in man, in the beginning / And at the end, two blank book-binder's leaves--childhood and age.
There are in the history of a man only three epochs, his birth, his life, and his death; he is not conscious of being born; he submits to die; and he forgets to live.
There are in this day, as in all days, around and in every man, voices from the gods, imperative to all, if obeyed by even none, which say audibly: Arise, thou son of Adam, son of Time, make this thing more divine, and that thing, and thyself of all things, and work, and sleep not; for the Night cometh wherein no man can work.
There are in this loud stunning tide / Of
human care and crime, / With whom the melodies abide / Of th' everlasting chime; / Who carry music in their heart, / Through dusty lane and wrangling mart, / Plying their daily task with busier feet, / Because their secret souls a holy strain repeat.
There are interests by the sacrifice of which peace is too dearly purchased. One should never be at peace to the shame of his own soul, to the violation of his integrity or of his allegiance to God.
There are many men who do not believe in evaporation. They get all they can, and keep all they get, and so are not fertilisers, but only stagnant, miasmatic pools.
There are many religions, but there is only one morality.
There are many troubles which you cannot cure by the Bible and the hymn-book, but which you can cure by a good perspiration and a breath of fresh air.
There are many truths of which the full
meaning cannot be realised until personal experience has brought it home.
There are men who, by long consulting their own inclination, have forgotten that others have a claim to the same deference.
There are men who dwell on the defects of their enemies. I always have regard to the merits of mine, and derive profit therefrom.
There are men whose tongues are more eloquent than those of women, but no man possesses the eloquence of a woman's eye.
There are moments in life when the heart is so full of emotion, / That if by chance it be shaken, or into its depths like a pebble / Drops some careless word, it overflows; and its secret, / Spilt on the ground like water, can never be gathered together.
There are more fools than wise men, and even
in the wise men more folly than wisdom.
There are more men ennobled by study than by nature.
There are more offences at my beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give them shape, or time to act them in.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, / Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
There are more ways to the wood than one.
There are nae fules like auld fules.
There are natures that are great by what they attain, and others by what they disdain.
There are no better masters than poverty and want.
There are no chagrins so venomous as the chagrins of the idle; no pangs so sickening as the satieties of pleasure.
There are no English lives worth reading except those of players, who by the nature of the case have bidden Respectability good-day.
There are no fixtures in Nature. The universe
is fluid and volatile.
There are no grotesques in Nature.
There are no laws by which we can write Iliads.
There are no obstructions more fatal to fortune than pride and resentment.
There are no persons more solicitous about the preservation of rank than those who have no rank at all.
There are no proverbial sayings which are not
true.
There are no real pleasures without real needs.
There are no tricks in plain and simple faith.
There are no troubles which have such a wasting and disastrous effect upon the mind as those which must not be told, but which cause the mind to be continually rolling and turning over upon itself in ceaseless convolutions and unrest.
There are no twin souls in God's universe.
There are none but men of strong passions
capable of going to greatness; none but such capable of meriting the public gratitude.
There are none of the charges brought against Socialism which might not have been brought against Christianity itself.
There are omens in the air, / And voices whispering Beware!--/ But never victor in the fight / Heeded the portents of fear and care.
There are only three classes of people--those who have found God and serve him; those who have not found God and seek him; and those who live without either seeking or finding him--the first, rational and happy; the second, unhappy and rational; the third, foolish and unhappy.
There are only two ways of rising in the world, either by one's own industry or by the weakness of others.
There are people who will help you to get your
basket on your head, because they want to see what's in it.
There are people who would never have been in love if they had never heard love spoken of.
There are proselytes from atheism, but none from superstition.
There are several who would, or at least pretend they would, bear much in their own business who will bear nothing at all.
There are shades in all good pictures, but there are lights too, if we choose to contemplate them.
There are single thoughts that contain the
essence of a whole volume, single sentences that have the beauties of a large work.
There are soldiers of the ploughshare as well as soldiers of the sword.
There are some cases in which human nature and its deep wrongs will be ever stronger than the world and its philosophy.
There are some faults so nearly allied to excellence that we can scarce weed out the vice without eradicating the virtue.
There are some men who are witty when they are in a bad humour, and others only when they are sad.
There are some people who give with the air
of refusal.
There are some sorrows cannot be subjected / To man's construction, howsoe'er suspected.
There are some trifles well habited, as there are some fools well clothed.
There are sorrows / Where of necessity the soul must be / Its own support.
There are souls which fall from heaven like flowers; but ere the pure and fresh buds can open, they are trodden in the dust of the earth, and lie soiled and crushed under the foul tread of some brutal hoof.
There are things in this world to be laughed
at, as well as things to be admired; and his is no complete mind that cannot give to each sort his due.
There are things that should be done, not spoken; that, till the doing of them is begun, cannot be spoken.
There are those who never reason on what they should do, but what they have done; as if Reason had her eyes behind, and could only see backwards.
There are thousands hacking at the branches of evil to one who is striking at the root.
There are three classes of authors--those who write without thinking, those who think while writing, and those who think before writing.
There are three difficulties in authorship--to
write anything worth the publishing, to find honest men to publish it, and to get sensible men to read it.
There are three material things, not only useful, but essential, to life--pure air, water, and earth; and three immaterial that are equally essential--admiration, hope, and love.
There are three means of believing--by inspiration, by reason, and by custom. Christianity, which is the only rational institution, does yet admit none for its sons who do not believe by inspiration.
There are three religions--the religion which depends on reverence for what is above us, denominated the ethnic; the religion which founds itself on reverence for what is around us, denominated the philosophical; the religion grounded on reverence for what is beneath us, which we name the Christian.
There are three things in this world which deserve no quarter--hypocrisy, pharisaism, and tyranny.
There are three things which cause perfection
in a man--nature, reason, use. Reason I call discipline; use, exercise. If any one of these branches want, certainly the tree of virtue must needs wither.
There are times when silence, if the preacher did but know, / Shall preach to better purpose than a sermon stale and flat.
There are times when we are diverted out of errors, but could not be preached out of them.
There are truths that shield themselves behind veils, and are best spoken by implication. Even the sun veils himself in his own rays to blind the gaze of the too curious starer.
There are two, and only two, forms of possible gospel or "good message"--one, that men are saved by themselves doing what is right; and the other, that they are saved by believing that somebody also did right instead of them. The first of these gospels is eternally true and holy; the other eternally false, damnable, and damning.
There are two kinds of genius. The first and
highest may be said to speak out of the eternal into the present, and must compel its age to understand it; the second understands its age, and tells it what it wishes to be told.
There are two levers for moving men--interest and fear.
There are two modes of establishing our reputation--to be praised by honest men, and to be abused by rogues. It is best, however, to secure the former, because it will be invariably accompanied by the latter.
There are two sides to every question.
There are two things that can reach the top of a pyramid, the eagle and the reptile.
There are two ways of attaining an important end--force and perseverance; the silent power of the latter grows irresistible with time.
There are unhappy times in the world's history, when he that is the least educated will chiefly have to say that he is the least perverted; and with the multitude of false eye-glasses, convex, concave, green, even yellow, has not lost the natural use of his eyes.
There are very few moments in a man's existence
when he experiences so much ludicrous distress, or meets with so little charitable commiseration, as when he is in pursuit of his own hat.
There are very few people in this world who get any good by either writing or reading.
There are, whom heaven has blessed with store of wit, / Yet want as much again to manage it; / For wit and judgment ever are at strife, / Tho' meant each other's aid, like man and wife.
There are words which are worth as much as the best actions, for they contain the germ of them all.
There be some that think their wits have been asleep, except they dart out somewhat that is piquant, and to the quick; that is a vein which would be bridled.
There can be no excess to love, none to knowledge,
none to beauty, when these attributes are considered in the purest sense.
There can be no kernel in this light nut; the soul of this man is in his clothes.
There can be no profanity where there is no fane behind.
There can be no shame in accepting orders from those who have themselves learned to obey.
There can be no true aristocracy but must possess the land.
There can come no harm of supposing every
other man better than yourself; but the supposing any man worse than yourself may be attended with very ill consequences.
There coils a fear beneath the loveliest dream.
There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man.
There have been in all ages children of God and of man; the one born of the Spirit, and obeying it; the other born of the flesh, and obeying it.
There in others' looks discover / What thy own life's course has been, / And thy deeds of years past over, / In thy fellow-men be seen.
There is a better thing than the great man
who is always speaking, and that is the great man who only speaks when he has a great word to say.
There is a black speck, say the Arabs, were it no bigger than a bean's eye, in every soul; which, once set a-working, will overcloud the whole man into darkness and quasi-madness, and hurry him balefully into night.
There is a book, who runs may read, / Which heavenly truth imparts, / And all the love its scholars need, / Pure eyes and Christian hearts. / The works of God above, below, / Within us, and around, / Are pages in that book, to show / How God Himself is found.
There is a budding morrow in midnight.
There is a care for trifles which proceeds from love and conscience, and is most holy; and a care for trifles which comes of idleness and frivolity, and is most base. And so, also, there is a gravity proceeding from thought, which is most noble; and a gravity proceeding from dulness and mere incapability of enjoyment, which is most base.
There is a Cato in every man; a severe censor
of his manners. And he that reverences this judge will seldom do anything he need repent of.
There is a certain artificial polish, a commonplace vivacity, acquired by perpetually mingling in the beau monde, which, in the commerce of the world, supplies the place of natural suavity and good-humour; but it is purchased at the expense of all original and sterling traits of character.
There is a certain mien and motion of the body and all its parts, both in acting and speaking, which argues a man well within.
There is a certain noble pride through which merits shine brighter than through modesty.
There is a country accent, not in speech only, but in thought, conduct, character, and manner of existing, which never forsakes a man.
There is a crack in everything God has made.
There is a devil dwells in man as well as a divinity.
There is a different kind of knowledge good for every different creature, and the glory of the higher creatures is in ignorance of what is known to the lower.
There is a flush of the body which is full of warmth and life, and another which will pass into putrefaction.
There is a foolish corner even in the brain of the sage.
There is a frightful interval between the seed
and the timber.
There is a glare about worldly success, which is very apt to dazzle men's eyes.
There is a God within us who breathes that divine fire by which we are animated.
There is a great deal of folly in talking unnecessarily of one's private affairs.
There is a great difference between bearing malice, which is always ungenerous, and a resolute self-defence, which is always prudent and justifiable.
There is a great discovery still to be made in
literature, that of paying literary men by the quantity they do not write.
There is a heroic innocence, as well as a heroic courage.
There is a higher law than the constitution.
There is a history in all men's lives, / Figuring the nature of the times deceased; / The which observed, a man may prophesy, / With a near aim of the main chance of things / As yet not come to life: which, in their seeds / And weak beginnings, lie intreasurèd.
There is a kind of pride in which are included all the commandments of God, and a kind of vanity which contains the seven mortal sins.
There is a life which taketh not its hues / From earth or earthly things; and so grows pure / And higher than the petty cares of men, / And is a blessed life and glorified.
There is a living, literal communion of saints, wide as the world itself, and as the history of the world.
There is a long and wearisome step between
admiration and imitation.
There is a lust in man no charm can tame, / Of loudly publishing his neighbour's shame; / On eagle's wings immortal scandals fly, / While virtuous actions are but born and die.
There is a magic in a great name.
There is a magic in the memory of schoolboy friendships; it softens the heart, and even affects the nervous system of those who have no hearts.
There is a mean in all things. Even virtue itself hath its stated limits; which not being strictly observed, it ceases to be virtue.
There is a measure of self-regard which is
right, wherein the individual self is identified with the universal self.
There is a mercy that is weakness, and even treason against the common good.
There is a method in man's wickedness, / It grows by degrees.
There is a nobler ambition than the getting of all California, or the getting of all the suffrages that are on the planet just now.
There is a perennial nobleness, and even sacredness, in work. Were he ever so benighted, forgetful of his high calling, there is always hope in a man that actually and earnestly works.
There is a period of life when our backward
movements are steps in advance.
There is a pleasure in poetic pains which only poets know.
There is a pleasure in the pathless woods; / There is a rapture on the lonely shore; / There is society, where none intrudes, / By the deep sea, and music in its roar; / I love not the man the less, / But Nature more.
There is a pleasure, sure, in being mad, which none but mad men know.
There is a power over and behind us, and we are the channels of its communication.
There is a probity of manners as well as of
conscience, and a true Christian will regard in a degree the conventionalities of society.
There is a property in the horizon which no man has but he whose eye can integrate all the parts--that is, the poet.
There is a rabble amongst the gentry as well as the commonalty; a sort of plebeian heads, whose fancy moves in the same wheel with the others,--men in the same level with mechanics, though their fortunes do somewhat gild their infirmities, and their purses compound for their follies.
There is a remedy for everything but death.
There is a remedy for every wrong, and a satisfaction for every soul.
There is a sacredness in tears. They are not
the mark of weakness, but of power. They speak more eloquently than ten thousand tongues. They are the messengers of overwhelming grief, of deep contrition, and of unspeakable love.
There is a skeleton in every house.
Then is a snake in the grass.
There is a Spanish proverb that a lapidary who would grow rich must buy of those who go to be executed, as not caring how cheap they sell; and sell to those who go to be married, as not caring how dear they buy.
There is a special providence in the fall of a sparrow.
There is a spirit of resistance implanted by
the Deity in the breast of man, proportioned to the size of the wrongs he is destined to endure.
There is a Sunday conscience as well as a Sunday coat; and those who make religion a secondary concern put the coat and conscience carefully by to put on only once a week.
There is a sweet little cherub that sits up aloft, to keep watch for the life of poor Jack.
There is a tendency in things to right themselves.
There is a third silent party to all our bargains. The nature and soul of things takes on itself the guarantee of the fulfilment of every contract, so that honest service cannot come to loss.
There is a tide in the affairs of men, / Which,
taken at the flood, leads on to fortune; / Omitted, all the voyage of their life / Is bound in shallows and in miseries; / On such a full sea are we now afloat; / And we must take the current when it serves, / Or lose our ventures.
There is a time for all things.
There is a time in every man's education when he arrives at the conviction that envy is ignorance.
There is a time of life beyond which we cannot form a tie worth the name of friendship.
There is a time there for every purpose and for every work.
There is a time wherein one man ruleth over
another to his own hurt.
There is a true Church whenever one meets another helpfully, and that is the only holy or Mother Church which ever was or ever shall be.
There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.
There is a worth in honest ignorance; 'twere almost a pity to exchange for knowledge.
There is always life for a living one.
There is always room for a man of force, and he makes room for many.
There is always some levity in excellent minds; they have wings to rise and also to stray.
There is always the possibility of beauty
where there is an unsealed human eye; of music where there is an unstopped human ear; and of inspiration where there is a receptive human spirit, a spirit standing before.
There is an abasement because of glory, and there is that lifteth up his head from a low estate.
There is an anger that is majestic as the frown of Jehovah's brow; it is the anger of truth and love.
There is an emanation from the heart in genuine hospitality which cannot be described but is immediately felt, and puts the stranger at once at his ease.
There is a heroic innocence, as well a heroic courage.
There is an insolence which none but those
who deserve some contempt themselves can bestow, and those only who deserve no contempt can bear.
There is as much difference between the counsel that a friend giveth and that a man giveth himself, as there is between the counsel of a friend and of a flatterer.
There is as much ingenuity in making an felicitous application of an passage as in being the author of it.
There is, at any given moment, a best path for every man; the thing which, here and now, it were wisest for him to do; whatsoever forwards him in that, were it even in the shape of blows and spurnings, is liberty; whatsoever hinders him, were it tremendous cheers and rivers of heavy wet, is slavery.
There is but one case wherein a man may commend himself with good grace, and that is in commending virtue in another, especially if it be such a virtue whereunto himself pretendeth.
There is but one class of men to be trembled
at, and that is the stupid class, the class that cannot see; who, alas! are mainly they that will not see.
There is but one misfortune for a man, when some idea lays hold of him which exerts no influence upon his active life, or still more, which withdraws him from it.
There is but one philosophy, and its name is Fortitude; to bear is to conquer our fate.
There is but one solid basis of happiness, and that is the reasonable hope of a happy futurity. This may be had everywhere.
There is but one temple in the world, and that is the body of man. Nothing is holier than this high form. Bending before men is a reverence done to this revelation in the flesh. We touch heaven when we lay our hand on a human body.
There is but one thing without honour, smitten
with eternal barrenness, inability to do or to be--insincerity, unbelief. He who believes nothing, who believes only the shows of things, is not in relation with nature and fact at all.
There is certainly something of exquisite kindness and thoughtful benevolence in that rarest of gifts--fine breeding.
There is differency between a grub and a butterfly; yet your butterfly was a grub.
There is enjoyment even in sadness, and the same souvenirs which have produced long regrets may also soften them.
There is ever a certain languor attending the fulness of prosperity. When the heart has no more to wish, it yawns over its possessions, and the energy of the soul goes out, like a flame that has no more to devour.
There is evil in every human heart, which may
remain latent, perhaps through the whole of life; but circumstances may rouse it to activity.
There is far less pleasure in doing a thing beautifully than in seeing it beautifully done.
There is for the soul a spontaneous culture, on which depends all its real progress in perfection.
There is forgiveness with God and Christ for the passing sin of the hot heart, but none for the eternal and inherent sin of the cold.
There is genius of a nation, which is not to be found in the citizen, but which characterises the society.
There is great force hidden in a sweet command.
There is in human nature an essential, though somewhat mysterious, connection of love with fear.
There is in human nature generally more of the fool than of the wise, and therefore those faculties by which the foolish part of men's minds is taken are most potent.
There is in man a Higher than love of happiness; he can do without happiness, and instead thereof find blessedness!
There is in nature an accessible and an inaccessible. Be careful to discriminate between the two. Be circumspect, and proceed with reverence.... It is always difficult to see where the one begins and the other leaves off. He who knows it, and is wise, will confine himself to the accessible.
There is in the heart of woman such a deep
well of love that no age can freeze it.
There is in this world infinitely more joy than pain to be shared, if you will only take your share when it is set before you.
There is little hope of equity where rebellion reigns.
There is little wisdom in knowing that every man must be up and doing, and that all mankind are made dependent on one another.
There is more concern nowadays to interpret interpretations than to interpret things, and more books about books than about any other subject. We do nothing but expound one another.
There is more danger in a reserved and silent friend than in a noisy babbling enemy.
There is more pleasure in loving than in being beloved.
There is more serfdom in England now than at any time since the Conquest.
There is music in all things, if men had ears.
There is need, bitter need, to bring back, if we may, into men's minds, that to live is nothing unless to live be to know Him by whom we live, and that He is not to be known amidst the hurry of crowds and crash of innovation, but in solitary places, and out of the glowing intelligence which He gave to men of old.
There is never a beginning, there is never an end, to the inexplicable continuity of the web of God, but always circular power returning into itself.
There is never but one opportunity of a kind.
There is no better counsellor than time.
There is no better sign of a brave mind than a
hard hand.
There is no better type of a perfectly free creature than the common house-fly.
There is no bridge from one being to another, each is a self, each rests on itself, and wills only itself, knows only itself, understands only itself.
There is no brotherhood possible, at any rate stable, between man and man but a brotherhood of labour.
There is no cause why one man's nose is longer than another's, but because that God pleases to have it so.
There is no class of men so difficult to be
managed in a state, as those whose intentions are honest, but whose consciences are bewitched.
There is no communion possible among men who believe only in hearsays.
There is no contingency, and what to us seems only blind chance is an efflux from the depths of being.
There is no courage but in innocence; no constancy but in an honest cause.
There is no creature so lonely as the dweller in the intellect.
There is no darkness but ignorance.
There is no darkness unto the conscience, which can see without light.
There is no dearth of charity in the world in giving, but there is comparatively little exercised in thinking and speaking.
There is no defence against reproach but obscurity.
There is no den in the wide world to hide a rogue. Commit a crime, and the earth is made of glass.
There is no despair so absolute as that which
comes with the first moments of our first great sorrow, when we have not yet known what it is to have suffered and be healed, to have despaired and have recovered hope.
There is no detraction worse than to overpraise a man.
There is no direr disaster in love than the death of imagination.
There is no dispute managed without passion, and yet there is scarce a dispute worth a passion.
There is no disputing against hobby-horses.
There is no education like adversity.
There is no end in nature, but every end is a beginning.
There is no end of settlements; there will never be an end; the best settlement is but a temporary partial one.
There is no event but sprung somewhere from the soul of man.
There is no evil but is mingled with good.
There is no extremity of distress which of
itself ought to reduce a great nation to despair. It is not the disorder, but the physician ... which alone can make a whole people desperate.
There is no fatigue so wearisome as that which comes from want of work.
There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear.
There is no fiercer hell than failure in a great object.
There is no flock, however watched and tended, / But one dead lamb is there; / There is no fireside, howsoe'er defended, / But has one vacant chair.
There is no foolishest man but knows one and
the other thing more clearly than any the wisest man does.
There is no gambling like politics.... Nothing in which the power of circumstance is more evident.
There is no genuine love for art without an ardent love for humanity.
There is no Gethsemane without its angel.
There is no ghost so difficult to lay as the ghost of an injury.
There is no God but God, the living, the self-subsisting.
There is no going to heaven in a sedan.
There is no good in arguing with the inevitable.
There is no good in emitting smoke till you have made it into fire, which all smoke is capable of becoming.
There is no great and no small / To the soul that maketh all; / And where it cometh, all things are; / And it cometh everywhere.
There is no great genius free from some tincture
of madness.
There is no greater evil among men than a testament framed with injustice; where caprice hath guided the boon, or dishonesty refused what was due.
There is no greater fraud than a promise unfulfilled.
There is no greater proof of human weakness than that which betrays itself in the boast of fortune and ancestry; these cannot ennoble us, but our conduct in life may ennoble or degrade them.
There is no greater punishment than that of being abandoned to one's self.
There is no greater wisdom than well to time the beginnings and onset of things.
There is no grief like hate! no pains like passions!
no deceit like sense! Enter the path! far hath he gone whose foot treads down one fond offence.
There is no grief that time will not soften.
There is no harm in anybody thinking that Christ is in bread. The harm is in the expectation of His presence in gunpowder.
There is no heroic poem in the world but is at bottom a biography, the life of a man; and there is no life of a man, faithfully recorded, but is a heroic poem of its sort, rhymed or unrhymed.
There is no jesting with edge tools.
There is no joy without alloy.
There is no hiding of evil but not to do it.
There is no index of character so sure as the voice.
There is no legislation for liars and traitors; they cannot be prevented from the pit; the earth finally swallows them.... There is no law for these but gravitation.
There is no less invention in aptly applying a thought found in a book than in being the first author of the thought.
There is no lie that many men will not believe;
there is no man who does not believe many lies; and there is no man who believes only lies.
There is no loss / In being small; great bulks but swell with dross. / Man is heaven's masterpiece; if it appear / More great, the value's less; if less, more dear.
There is no lustre
is the first rule to which every author should pay regard.
There is no man alone, because every man is a microcosm, and carries the whole world about him.
There is no man on the streets whose biography I would not like to be acquainted with.
There is no man so friendless but that he can
find a friend sincere enough to tell him disagreeable truths.
There is no man so rudely punished as he that is subject to the whip of his own remorse.
There is no man that has not his hour, nor is there anything that has not its place.
There is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit; neither hath he power in the day of death: and there is no discharge in that war.
There is no man that imparteth his joys to his friend, but he joyeth the more; and no man that imparteth his griefs to his friend, but he grieveth the less.
There is no man whom fortune does not visit
once in his life; but when she does not find him ready to receive her, she walks in at the door, and flies out at the window.
There is no merit where there is no trial; and, till experience stamps the mark of strength, cowards may pass for heroes, faith for falsehood.
There is no mistake; there has been no mistake; and there shall be no mistake.
There is no more fatal blunderer than he who consumes the greater part of his life getting his living.
There is no more potent antidote to low sensuality than the adoration of beauty.
There is no more welcome gift to men than a
new symbol.
There is no mortal extant, out of the depths of Bedlam, but lives all skinned, thatched, covered over with formulas; and is, as it were, held in from delirium and the inane by his formulas. These are the most beneficent and indispensable of human equipments; blessed he who has a skin and tissues, so it be a living one, and the heart-pulse everywhere discernible through it.
There is no mortal truly wise and restless at once; wisdom is the repose of minds.
There is no new thing under the sun.
There is no object of desire the supreme vanity of which we do not recognise and confess when once we have embraced it.
There is no object so foul that intense light
will not make beautiful. And the stimulus it affords to the sense, and a sort of infinitude which it hath like space and time, make all matter gay.
There is no one the friend of another: there is no one the enemy of another: friends, as well as enemies, are created through our transactions.
There is no one who does not exaggerate.
There is no ordinance obliging us to fight those who are stronger than ourselves. Such fighting, as it were, with an elephant, is the same as men's fighting against rocks.
There is no other ghost save the ghost of our own childhood, the ghost of our own innocence, the ghost of our own airy belief.
There is no other revelation than the thoughts
of the wise.
There is no outward sign of courtesy that does not rest on a deep moral foundation.
There is no part of the furniture of a man's mind which he has a greater right to exult in than that which he has hewn and fashioned for himself.
There is no part of the world from whence we may not admire these planets, which roll, like ours, in different orbits round the same central sun; ... and whilst my soul is thus raised up to heaven, it imports me little what ground I tread upon.
There is no patriotic art and no patriotic science.
There is no peace in ambition; it is always gloomy, and often unreasonably so. The kindness of the king, the regards of the courtiers, the attachment of my domestics, and the fidelity of a large number of friends, make me happy no longer.
There is no permanence in doubt; it incites the mind to closer inquiry and experiment, from which, if rightly managed, certainty proceeds, and in this alone can man find thorough satisfaction.
There is no permanent love but that which has duty for its eldest brother; so that if one sleeps the other watches, and honour is safe.
There is no place like home.
There is no place where earth's sorrows / Are
more felt than up in heaven; / There is no place where earth's failings / Have such kindly judgment given.
There is no policy like politeness; and a good manner is the best thing in the world, either to get a good name or to supply the want of it.
There is no pure malignity in nature.
There is no qualification for government but virtue and wisdom.
There is no real life but cheerful life.
There is no repose for the mind except in the
absolute.
There is no respect for others without humility in one's self.
There is no respect of persons with God.
There is no returning from a
There is no riches above a sound body, and no joy above the joy of the heart.
There is no right faith in believing what is
true, unless we believe it because it is true.
There is no road too long to the man who advances deliberately and without undue haste; there are no honours too distant to the man who prepares himself for them with patience.
There is no royal road to geometry.
There is no sanctuary of virtue like home.
There is no solemnity so deep, to a right thinking creature, as that of dawn.
There is no solitude in nature.
There is no solitude more dreadful for a stranger, an isolated man, than a great city. So many thousands, and not one friend.
There is no spirit without a body unless it be a ghost, and no body without a spirit unless it be a corpse.
There is no sporting with a fellow-creature's happiness or misery.
There is no sterner moralist than pleasure.
There is no stronger test of a man's real
character than power and authority, exciting, as they do, every passion, and discovering every latent vice.
There is no such flatterer as is a man's self, and there is no such remedy against flattery of a man's self as the liberty of a friend.
There is no such thing as a dumb poet or a handless painter. The essence of an artist is that he should be articulate.
There is no such thing as being agreeable without a thorough good-humour, a natural sweetness of temper, enlivened by cheerfulness.
There is no such thing as chance; and what seems to us merest accident springs from the deepest source of destiny.
There is no such thing as Liberty in the universe:
there can never be. The stars have it not; the earth has it not; the sea has it not; and we men have the mockery and semblance of it only for our heaviest punishment.
There is no sure foundation set on blood; / No certain life achieved by others' death.
There is no surer argument of a weak mind than irresolution.
There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats; / For I am armed so strong in honesty / That they pass by me as the idle wind / Which I respect not.
There is no thought in any mind, but it quickly tends to convert itself into a power, and organises a huge instrumentality of means.
There is no time so miserable, but a man may
be true.
There is no traitor like him whose domestic treason plants the poniard within the breast which trusted to his truth.
There is no true action without will.
There is no true love without jealousy.
There is no vague general capability in men.
There is no vice or folly that requires so much
nicety and skill to manage as vanity.
There is no vice or crime that does not originate in self-love; and there is no virtue that does not grow from the love of others out of and beyond self.
There is no vice so simple but assumes / Some mark of virtue in his outward parts.
There is no venom like that of the tongue.
There is no wealth but life--life, including all its powers of love, of joy, and of admiration.
There is no well-doing, no godlike doing, that
is not patient doing.
There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the Lord.
There is no work of genius which has not been the delight of mankind, no word of genius to which the human heart and soul have not, sooner or later, responded.
There is no worse fruit than that which never ripens.
There is no worse joke than a true one.
There is none so blind as they that won't see.
There is none so poor that he need sit on a pumpkin. That is shiftlessness.
There is not a Red Indian hunting by Lake Winnipeg can quarrel with his squaw but the whole world must smart for it; will not the price of beaver rise?
There is not any benefit so glorious in itself but it may be exceedingly sweetened and improved by the manner of conferring it. The virtue, I know, rests in the intent, but the beauty and ornament of an obligation lies in the manner of it.
There is not in earth a spectacle more worthy than a great man superior to his sufferings.
There is not in national life any real epoch, because there is nothing in reality abrupt. Events, however great or sudden, are consequences of preparations long ago made.
There is not one grain in the universe, either too much or too little, nothing to be added, nothing to be spared; nor so much as any one particle of it, that mankind may not be either the better or the worse for, according as it is applied.
There is not so agonizing a feeling in the whole
catalogue of human suffering as the first conviction that the heart of the being whom we most tenderly love is estranged from us.
There is not so much comfort in having children as there is sorrow in parting with them.
There is not the thickness of a sixpence between good and evil.
There is not yet any inventory of man's faculties.
There is nothing beyond the pleasure which the study of Nature produces. Her secrets are of unfathomable depth, but it is granted to us men to look into them more and more.
There is nothing born but has to die.
There is nothing by which I have, through life, more profited than by the just observations, the good opinion, and the sincere and gentle encouragement of amiable and sensible women.
There is nothing capricious in nature.
There is nothing covered that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known.
There is nothing divine but what is rational.
There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking
makes it so.
There is nothing evil but what is within us; the rest is either natural or accidental.
There is nothing exasperates people more than the display of superior ability or brilliancy in conversation. They seem pleased at the time, but their envy makes them curse him at their hearts.
There is nothing from without a man that entering into him can defile him; but the things which come out of him, those are they that defile the man.
There is nothing good or evil save in the will.
There is nothing good or godlike in this world
but has in it something of "infinite sadness."
There is nothing holier in this life of ours than the first consciousness of love, the first fluttering of its silken wings.
There is nothing in the world more shameful than establishing one's self on lies and fables.
There is nothing in this world that will keep the devil out of one but hard labour.
There is nothing in which the power of circumstance is more evident than in politics.
There is nothing innocent or good that dies
and is forgotten.
There is nothing insignificant, nothing!
There is nothing lighter than vain praise.
There is nothing like leather.
There is nothing like the cold dead hand of the past to take down our tumid egotism, and lead us into the solemn flow of the life of our race.
There is nothing little to the truly great in
spirit.
There is nothing more allied to the barbarous and savage character than sullenness, concealment, and reserve.
There is nothing more characteristic than the shakes of the hand.
There is nothing more charming than to see a mother with a child in her arms, and nothing more venerable than a mother among a number of her children.
There is nothing more frightful than for a teacher to know only what his scholars are intended to know.
There is nothing more frightful than imagination
without taste.
There is nothing more perennial in us than habit and imitation. They are the source of all working and all apprenticeship, of all practice and all learning.
There is nothing more pitiable in the world than an irresolute man, oscillating between two feelings, who would willingly unite the two, and who does not perceive that nothing can unite them.
There is nothing more precious to a man than his will; there is nothing which he relinquishes with so much reluctance.
There is nothing more terrible to a guilty heart than the eye of a respected friend.
There is nothing new under the sun.
There is nothing of which men are so fond and so careless as life.
There is nothing on earth divine beside humanity.
There is nothing on earth which is not in the heavens in a heavenly form, and nothing in the heavens which is not on the earth in an earthly form.
There is nothing on earth without difficulty. Only the inner impulse, the pleasure it gives us, and love we feel, help us to overcome obstruction, to pave our way, and to raise ourselves out of the narrow circle in which others sorrowfully torture themselves.
There is nothing really more monstrous in any
recorded savagery or absurdity of mankind than that governments should be able to get money for any folly they choose to commit, by selling to capitalists the right of taxing future generations to the end of time.
There is nothing so agonising to the fine skin of vanity as the application of a rough truth.
There is nothing so great or so goodly in creation, but it is a mean symbol of the gospel of Christ, and of the things that he has prepared for them that love him.
There is nothing so powerful as truth, and nothing so strange.
There is nothing so small but that we may honour God by asking his guidance of it, or insult him by taking it into our own hands.
There is nothing so secret but it comes to
light.
There is nothing so sure of succeeding as not to be over brilliant, as to be entirely wrapped up in one's self, and endowed with a perseverance which, in spite of all the rebuffs it may meet with, never relaxes in the pursuit of its object.
There is nothing so terrible as activity without insight.
There is nothing to be found only once in the world.
There is nothing to which man is not related.
There is nothing which vanity does not desecrate.
There is nothing without us that is not also within us.
There is often a complaint of want of parts, when the fault lies in a want of a due improvement of them.
There is often more true spiritual force in a proverb than in a philosophical system.
There is / One great society alone on earth; / The noble living and the noble dead.
There is one preacher who does preach with
effect, and gradually persuade all persons; his name is Destiny, Divine Providence, and his sermon the inflexible course of things.
There is only one cure for public distress, and that is public education, directed to make men thoughtful, merciful, and just.
There is only one mendacious being in the world, and that is man.
There is only one thing better than tradition, and that is the original and eternal life out of which all tradition takes its rise.
There is only one true religion, but there may be many forms of belief.
There is poetry and beauty in the common
lives about us, if we look at them with imaginative and sympathetic eye.
There is power over and behind us, and we are the channels of its communication.
There is precious instruction to be got by finding that we are wrong.
There is properly but one slavery in the world--the slavery of wisdom to folly.
There is properly no history, only biography.
There is, properly speaking, no misfortune in
the world. Happiness and misfortune stand in continual balance. Every misfortune is, as it were, the obstruction of a stream, which, after overcoming this obstruction, but bursts forth with the greater force.
There is really something absurd about the Present; all that people think of is the sight, the touch of each other, and there they rest; but it never occurs to them to reflect upon what is to be gained from such moments.
There is safety in solitude.
There is scarce truth enough alive to make societies secure, but security enough to make fellowships accursed.
There is scarcely a good critic of books born in our age, and yet every fool thinks himself justified in criticising persons.
There is sentiment in all women, and sentiment
gives delicacy to thought, and tact to manner. But sentiment with men is generally acquired, an offspring of the intellectual quality, not, as with the other sex, of the moral.
There is so much of good among the worst, so much of evil in the best, such seeming partialities in providence, so many things to lessen and expand, yea, and with all man's boast, so little real freedom of his will, that to look a little lower than the surface, garb, or dialect, or fashion, thou shalt feebly pronounce for a saint, and faintly condemn for a sinner.
There is so much trouble in coming into the world, and so much more, as well as meanness, in going out of it, that 'tis hardly worth while to be here at all.
There is some soul of goodness in things evil, / Would men observingly distil it out.
There is some use in having two attorneys in one firm. Their movements resemble those of the man and woman in a Dutch babyhouse. When it is fair weather with the client, out comes the gentleman partner to fawn like a spaniel; when it is foul, forth bolts the operative brother to pin like a bull-dog.
There is something behind the throne greater
than the king himself.
There is something in sorrow more akin to the course of human affairs than joy.
There is something irresistibly pleasing in the conversation of a fine woman; even though her tongue be silent, the eloquence of her eyes teach wisdom.
There is something more awful in happiness than in sorrow.
There is something not solid in the good that is done for us.
There is something of all men in every man.
There is something so moving in the very image of weeping beauty.
There is something too dear in the hope of seeing again.... "Dear heart, be quiet;" we say; "you will not be long separated from those people that you love; be quiet, dear heart!" And then we give it in the meanwhile a shadow, so that it has something, and then it is good and quiet, like a little child whose mother gives it a doll instead of the apple which it ought not to eat.
There is still a real magic in the action and reaction of minds on one another. The casual deliration of a few becomes, by this mysterious reverberation, the frenzy of many; men lose the use, not only of their understandings, but of their bodily senses; while the most obdurate unbelieving hearts melt like the rest in the furnace where all are cast as victims and as fuel.
There is still enough to satisfy one in spite of all misfortunes.
There is such a choice of difficulties that I am myself at a loss how to determine.
There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.
There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth:
and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty.
There is very great necessity indeed of getting a little more silent than we are.
There is work on God's wide earth for all men that he has made with hands and hearts.
There lives more faith in honest doubt, believe me, than in half the creeds.
There may come a day when there shall be no more curse; in the meantime you must be humble and honest enough to take your share of it.
There may often be less vanity in following the
new modes than in adhering to the old ones. It is true that the foolish invent them, but the wise may conform to, instead of contradicting, them.
There must always remain something that is antagonistic to good.
There must be a man behind a book.
There must be hearts which know the depths of our being, and swear by us, even when the whole world forsakes us.
There must be work done by the arms, or none of us would live; and work done by the brains, or the life would not be worth having. And the same men cannot do both.
There must first be seducing men before
seduced women.
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave / To tell us this.
There needs not a great soul to make a hero; there needs a god-created soul which will be true to its origin; that will be a great soul.
There never did and never will exist anything permanently noble and excellent in a character which was a stranger to the exercise of resolute self-denial.
There never was a bad man but had ability for good service.
There never was a great man unless through
Divine inspiration.
There never was a literary age whose dominant taste was not sickly.
There never was a talent, even for real literature, but was primarily a talent for something infinitely better of the silent kind.
There never was any heart truly great and generous that was not also tender and compassionate.
There never was any party, faction, or sect in which the most ignorant was not the most violent.
There never was so great a thought labouring
in the breasts of men as now.
There occur cases in human life when it is wisdom not to be too wise.
There remaineth a rest to the people of God.
There seems to be no part of knowledge in fewer hands than that of discerning when to have done.
There shall no evil happen to the just.
There the wicked cease from troubling, and
there the weary be at rest.
There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built bulwarks against it. Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city, yet no man remembered that same poor man.
There was a time when meadow, grove, and stream, / The earth and every common sight, / To me did seem / Apparelled in celestial light, / The glory and the freshness of a dream. / It is not now as it has been of yore; / Turn wheresoe'er I may, / By night or day, / The things which I have seen, I now can see no more.
There was a time when the world acted upon books. Now books act upon the world.
There was but one Moses to the thousands of Israel that entered Jordan.
There was never a nation great until it came
to the knowledge that it had nowhere in the world to go for help.
There was never good or ill but women had to do with it.
There was never yet philosopher / Who could endure the toothache patiently.
There was sense in the sentences, but the sum-total was nonsense.
There was speech in their dumbness, language in their very gesture.
There were no ill language if it were not ill
taken.
There where thou art, there where thou remainest, accomplish what thou canst.
There will always be a government of force where men are selfish.
There's a brave fellow! There's a man of pluck! / A man who is not afraid to say his say, / Though a whole town's against him.
There's a courage which grows out of fear.
There's a divinity that shapes our ends, /
Rough-hew them as we will.
There's a medium in thoughtfulness and gaiety: find it out and keep to it.
There's a special providence in the fall of a sparrow.
There's a sweeter flower than e'er / Blush'd on the rosy spray, / A brighter star, a richer bloom, / Than e'er did western heaven illume / At close of summer day--/ 'Tis Love, the last best gift of Heaven.
There's always life for the living.
There's beggary in the love that can be reckoned.
There's folks as make bad butter, and trusten to the salt t' hide it.
There's folks 'ud stand on their heads and then say the fault was in their boots.
There's husbandry in heaven; / Their candles are all out.
There's language in her eye, her cheeks, her
lip, / Nay, her foot speaks.
There's many a good bit o' work done with a sad heart.
There's many a slip / 'Twixt the cup and the lip.
There's mercy in every place, / And mercy, encouraging thought, / Gives even affliction a grace, / And reconciles man to his lot.
There's music in the sighing of a reed; / There's music in the gushing of a rill; / There's music in all things, if men had ears.
There's nae sorrow there, John, / There's
neither cauld nor care, John, / The day is aye fair, / In the land o' the leal.
There's no armour against fate.
There's no art / To find the mind's construction in the face.
There's no folk sic idiots as them that looks like geniuses.
There's no glory like his who saves his country.
There's no grace in a benefit that sticks to the
fingers.
There's no great banquet but some fares ill.
There's no pleasure i' living, if you're to be corked up for ever, and only dribble your mind out by the sly, like a leaky barrel.
There's no seeing one's way through tears.
There's no slipping up-hill again, and no standing still when once you've begun to slip down.
There's no work so tirin' as danglin' about an'
starin', an' not rightly knowin' what you're goin' to do next; an' keepin' your face i' smilin' order, like a grocer o' market-day.
There's not a joy the world can give like that it takes away.
There's not a place where Rest can say, / I'll not have Labour here; / For Rest itself would pine away / If Labour were not near.
There's not a string attuned to mirth / But has its chord in melancholy.
There's not one wise man among twenty that will praise himself.
There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st, /
But in his motion like an angel sings, / Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubims.
There's nothing but what's bearable as long as a man can work.
There's nothing certain but uncertainty.
There's nothing half so sweet in life / As love's young dream.
There's nothing situate under heaven's eye, / But hath its bound in earth, in sea, in sky.
There's none that can / Read God aright, unless
he first spell man.
There's small choice in rotten apples.
There's something good in all weathers. If it don't happen to be good for my work to-day, it's good for some other man's to-day, and will come round to me to-morrow.
There's such divinity doth hedge a king, / That treason can but peep to what it would.
There's things it's best to put off kenning as long as we can.
Thereby hangs a tale.
These / Are but the varied God. The rolling year / Is full of thee.
"These are my jewels."
These cases, wherein happiness would be sinful, are just as much, but no more, the ordainments of Providence as those more common ones wherein happiness is natural and right.
These fair tales, which we know so beautiful, / Show only finer than our lives to-day / Because their voice was clearer, and they found / A sacred bard to sing them.
These limbs, whence had we them; this
stormy force; this life-blood with its burning passion? They are dust and shadow: a shadow-system gathered round our Me; wherein through some moments or years, the divine essence is to be revealed in flesh.
These little things are great to little men.
These moving things, ca'ed wife and weans, / Wad move the very heart o' stanes.
These violent delights have violent ends.
They are as sick that surfeit with too much, as they that starve with nothing.
They are but beggars that can count their
worth.
They are dead even for this life who hope for no better.
They are never alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts.
They are not a pipe for fortune's finger, / To sound what stop she please.
They are not all free who scorn their chains.
They are not kings who sit on thrones, but
they who know how to govern.
They are not sages who do not declare men's duty.
They are slaves who dare not be / In the right with two or three.
They asked Lucman the fabulist, "From whom did you learn manners?" He answered, "From the unmannerly."
They can conquer who believe they can.
They do most by books who could do much without them; and he that chiefly owes himself unto himself is the substantial man.
They ever do pretend / To have received a wrong who wrong intend.
They fool me to the top of my bent.
They found no end, in wandering mazes lost.
They grew in beauty side by side, / They fill'd
one home with glee; / Their graves are sever'd far and wide, / By mount, and stream, and sea.
They govern the world, these sweet-lipped women, because beauty is the index of a larger fact than wisdom.
They had the divine right of kings to settle, these unfortunate ancestors of ours; ... and they did, on hest of necessity, manage to settle it.
They have been at a great feast of languages, and stolen the scraps.
They have destroyed the beaten track to heaven; we are now compelled to make for ourselves ladders.
They laugh that win.
They lose it
They love least that let men know their love.
They love most who are least valued.
They love not poison that do poison need.
They love us truly who correct us freely.
They most assume who know the least.
They must hunger in winter that will not work in summer.
They must often change who would be constant in happiness or wisdom.
They never taste who always drink; / They always talk who never think.
They only are wise who know that they know
nothing.
They only babble that practise not reflection.
They only should own who can administer.
They only who build on ideas build for eternity.
They pass best over the world who trip over it quickly; for it is but bog--if we stop, we sink.
They said that Love would die when Hope was
gone, / And Love mourn'd long, and sorrow'd after Hope; / At last she sought out Memory, and they trod / The same old paths where Love had walk'd with Hope, / And Memory fed the soul of Love with tears.
They say best men are moulded out of faults, / And, for the most, become much more the better / For being a little bad.
They say Doubt is weak, but yet, if life be in the doubt, / The living doubt is more than Faith that life did never know.
"They say so" is half a lie.
They, sweet soul, that most impute a crime / Are pronest to it, and impute themselves, / Wanting the mental range; or low desire / Not to feel lowest makes them level all; / Yea, they would pare the mountain to the plain, / To leave an equal baseness.
They that are above have ends in everything.
They that are against superstition oftentimes run into it of the wrong side. If I wear all colours but black, then I am superstitious in not wearing black.
They that are booted are not always ready.
They that be whole need not a physician; but they that are sick.
They that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness, as the stars for ever and ever.
They that bear a noble mind, / Where they
want of riches find.
They that by pleading clothes / Do fortunes seek, when worth and service fail, / Would have their tale believed for their oaths, / And are like empty vessels under sail.
They that deny a God destroy man's nobility. For, certainly, man is of kin to the beasts, by his body; and if he be not of kin to God by his spirit, he is a base and ignoble creature.
They that do change old love for new, / Pray gods, they change for worse.
They that do nothing are in the readiest way to do that which is worse than nothing.
They that drive away time spur a free horse.
They that govern the most make the least noise.
They that hold by the Divine / Clasp too the Human in their faith.
They that know one another salute afar off.
They that marry ancient people merely in expectation to bury them, hang themselves in hope that one will come and cut the halter.
They that mean to make no use of friends will
be at little trouble to gain them: and to be without friendship is to be without one of the first comforts of our present state.
They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy.
They that plough iniquity and sow wickedness reap the same.
They that stand high have many blasts to shake them; and if they fall, they dash themselves to pieces.
They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.
They that sow the wind shall reap the whirlwind.
They that will crowd about bonfires may, sometimes very fairly, get their beards singed; it is the price they pay for such illumination; natural twilight is safe and free to all.
They told me I was everything; 'tis a lie: I am not ague-proof.
They well deserve to have / That know the strong'st and surest way to get.
They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us.
They who accuse and blacken thee wrongfully are much the greatest sufferers by their own malice and injustice.
They who but slowly pacèd are / By plodding on may travel far.
They who contract absurd habits are such as have no fear.
They who crouch to those who are above them, always trample on those who are below them.
They who do not feel the darkness will never
look for the light.
They who embrace the entire universe with love, for the most part love nothing but their narrow selves.
They who gratefully the gods adore, / Still find their joys increasing more and more.
They who have lost an infant are never, as it were, without an infant child.
They who have no other trade but seeking their fortune, need never hope to find her; coquette-like, she flies from her close pursuers, and at last fixes on the plodding mechanic who stays at home and minds his business.
They who lie soft and warm in a rich estate
seldom come to heat themselves at the altar.
They who oppose a Ministry have always a better field for ridicule and reproof than they who defend it.
They who place their affections on trifles at first for amusement, will find those trifles at last become their serious concern.
They who play with the devil's rattles will be brought by degrees to wield his sword.
They who pretend most to universal benevolence are either deceivers or dupes--men who desire to cover their private ill-nature by a pretended regard for all.
They who resign life rather than part with
liberty do only a prudent action; but those who lay it down for friends and country do a heroic one.
They who resist indiscriminately all improvement as innovation, may find themselves compelled at last to submit to innovations although they are not improvements.
They who seek only for faults see nothing else.
They who sustain their cross shall likewise be sustained by it in return.
They who travel in pursuit of wisdom walk only in a circle, and, after all their labour, at last return to their pristine ignorance.
They who want a farthing, and have no friend
that will lend them it, think farthings very good things.
They who want money when they come to borrow, will always want money when they should come to pay.
They who will watch Providence will never want a Providence to watch.
They whom truth and wisdom lead / Can gather honey from a weed.
Thick as autumnal leaves that strew the brooks / In Vallombrosa.
Thine ears shall hear a word behind thee,
saying, This is the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to the left.
Thine is the right, for thine the might.
Thine own friend, and thy father's friend, forsake not; neither go into thy brother's house in the day of thy calamity: for better is a neighbour that is near than a brother far off.
Thine own worm be not: yet such jealousy, As hurts not others, but may make thee better, / Is a good spur.
Things all are big with jest; nothing that's plain / But may be witty, if thou hast the vein ... / Many affecting wit beyond their power, / Have got to be a dear fool for an hour.
Things are graceful in a friend's mouth which
are blushing in a man's own.
Things are his property alone who knows how to use them.
Things are long-lived, and God above appoints their term; yet when the brains of a thing have been out for three centuries and odd, one does wish it would be kind enough and die.
Things are not so false always as they seem.
Things are sullen, and will be as they are, whatever we think them or wish them to be.
Things are what they are by nature, not by
will.
Things at the worst will cease, or else climb upward / To what they were before.
Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
Things base and vile, holding no quantity, / Love can transpose to form and dignity.
Things fasten upon thee only according as the degree of thy own love and inclination for them gives opportunity and advantage.
Things good, great Jove, asked or unasked,
supply: / Things evil, though we ask for them, deny.
Things have their laws as well as men; and things refuse to be trifled with.
Things ill got had ever bad success.... I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind.
Things may serve long, but not serve ever.
Things more excellent than every image are expressed through images.
Things must turn when they can go no farther.
Things refuse to be mismanaged long.
Things seen are mightier than things heard.
Things will always right themselves in time, if only those who know what they want to do, and can do, persevere unremittingly in work and action.
Things will never be bettered by an excess of haste.
Things without remedy should be without regard; what is done, is done.
Things won are done; joy's soul lies in the doing.
Think all you speak, but speak not all you think.
Think and thank God.
Think naught a trifle, though it small appear; / Small sands the mountain, moments make the year, / And trifles life.
Think not, dream not that thou livest, / If thy hand doth idly lie, / If thy soul for ever longing, / Yearn but for the by and bye.
Think not I came to send peace on the earth; I came not to send peace but a sword.
Think not thy fame at every twitch will break; / By great deeds show that thou canst little do; / And do them not; that shall thy wisdom be; / And change thy temperance into bravery.
Think not thy own shadow longer than that of
others.
Think not your estate your own, while any man can call upon you for money which you cannot pay.
Think of ease, but work on.
Think of "living!" Thy life, wert thou the "pitifullest of all the sons of earth," is no idle dream, but a solemn reality. It is thy own; it is all thou hast to front eternity with.
Think of the hosts of worlds, and of the plagues in this world-mote--death puts an end to the whole.
Think with awe on the slow, the quiet power
of time.
Think wrongly, if you please, but in all cases think for yourself.
Think ye that God made the universe, and then let it run round his finger?
Think you, 'mid all this mighty sum / Of things for ever speaking, / That nothing of itself will come, / But we must still be seeking.
Thinkers are scarce as gold; but he whose thoughts embrace all his subject, pursues it uninterruptedly and fearless of consequences, is a diamond of enormous size.
Think'st thou existence doth depend on time? /
It doth; but actions are our epochs.
Thinking about sin, beyond what is indispensable for the firm effort to get rid of it, is waste of energy and waste of time.
Thinking is but an idle waste of thought; / For nought is everything, and everything is nought.
Thinking is the function; living is the functionary.
Thinking leads man to knowledge. He may see and hear, and read and learn, whatever he pleases, and as much as he pleases; he will never know anything of it, except that which he has thought over, that which by thinking he has made the property of his mind.
Thinking nurseth thinking.
This above all; to thine own self be true, / And it must follow as the night the day, / Thou canst not then be false to any man.
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
This century is not ripe for my ideal; I live a citizen of those that are to come.
"This comes of walking on the earth."
This communicating of a man's self to his
friend works two contrary effects, for it redoubleth joys and cutteth griefs in halves.
This day / Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.
This day's propitious to be wise in.
This even-handed justice / Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice / To our own lips.
This ever-renewing generation of appearances rests on a reality, and a reality that is alive.
This fell sergeant, death, / Is strict in his
arrest.
This hand, to tyrants ever sworn the foe, / For freedom only deals the deadly blow: / Then sheathes in calm repose the vengeful blade / For gentle peace in freedom's hallowed shade.
This I think charity--to love God for himself, and our neighbour for God.
This is a great--properly the greatest--moment in a man's life, when, reconciling himself to necessity, he is able with clearness of purpose to say, "Let the will of the gods be done."
"This is a sharp medicine, but it cures all disorders."
This is faith; it is nothing more than obedience.
This is how I define talent; it is a gift God has given us in secret, which we reveal without knowing it.
This is not a time for purism of style; and style has little to do with the worth or unworth of a book.
This is not the liberty which we can hope, that no grievance should arise in the commonwealth, but when complaints are freely heard, deeply considered, and speedily reformed, then is the utmost bound of civil liberty attained that wise men look for.
This is the first condition of a living morality as well as of vital religion, that the soul shall find a true centre out from and above itself, round which it shall revolve.
This is the humour of it.
This is the monstrosity in love--that the will is infinite, and the execution confined; that the desire is boundless, and the act a slave to limit.
This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth / The tender leaves of hopes; to-morrow blossoms, / And bears his blushing honours thick upon him; / The third day comes a frost, a killing frost; / And when he thinks, good easy man, full surely / His greatness is a-ripening, nips his root, / And then he falls, as I do.
This is the very coinage of your brain; / This bodiless creation ecstasy / Is very cunning in.
This is the very curse of an evil deed, that it engenders and must bring forth more evil.
This is true philanthropy, that buries not its gold in ostentatious charity, but builds its hospital in the human heart.
This low man seeks a little thing to do, / Sees it and does it; / This high man, with a great thing to pursue, / Dies ere he knows it.
This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with
them.
This narrow isthmus 'twixt two boundless seas, / The past, the future--two eternities.
This nothing's more than matter.
This of old is sure, / That change of toil is toil's sufficient cure.
This one fact the world hates--that the soul becomes.
This present is a ruinous and ruining world.
This she knows in joys and woes, / That saints will aid if men will call; / For the blue sky bends over all.
This so solid-seeming world is, after all, but an air-image, our Me the only reality; and Nature, with its thousand-fold production and destruction, but the reflex of our own inward force, the "Phantasy of our Dream," or, what the earth-spirit in "Faust" names it, "the living visible garment of God."
This time, like all times, is a very good one, if we but knew what to do with it.
This was a man.
This was the most unkindest cut of all.
This will prove a brave kingdom to me, where I shall have my music for nothing.
This world belongs to the energetic.
This world is a busy scene, and man a creature destined for a progressive struggle.
This world is all a fleeting show, / For man's illusion given: / The smiles of joy, the tears of woe, / Deceitful shine, deceitful flow, / There's nothing true but heaven.
This world is full of fools, and he who would
not wish to see one must not only shut himself up alone, but must also break his looking-glass.
This world surely is wide enough to hold both thee and me!
This world, where much is to be done and little to be known.
Thistles and thorns prick sore, but evil tongues prick more.
Tho' men may bicker with the things they love, / They would not make them laughable in all eyes, / Not while they loved them.
Tho' world on world in myriad myriads roll /
Round us, each with different powers, / And other form of life than ours, / What know we greater than the soul?
Those are not empty-hearted whose low sound / Reverbs no hollowness.
Those are often raised into the greatest transports of mirth who are subject to the greatest depressions of melancholy.
Those deserve to be doubly laughed at that are peevish and angry for nothing to no purpose.
Those faces which have charmed us the most escape us the soonest.
Those faults conscience has not strength to
prevent, it seldom has justice enough to accuse.
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, / Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel.
Those holy fields / Over whose acres walked those blessèd feet / Which, fourteen hundred years ago were nailed, / For our advantage, on the bitter cross.
Those of us who are worth anything spend our manhood in unlearning the follies or expiating the mistakes of our youth.
Those only are beautiful which, like the planets, have a steady, lambent light--are luminous, not sparkling.
Those only are despicable who fear to be
despised.
Those only deserve a monument who do not need one.
Those only obtain love, for the most part, who seek it not.
Those only who know little can be said to know anything. The greater the knowledge the greater the doubt.
Those people who are always improving never become great. Greatness is an eminence, the ascent to which is steep and lofty, and which a man must seize on at once by natural boldness and vigour, and not by patient, wary steps.
Those persons who do most good are least
conscious of it.
Those tender tears that humanise the soul.
Those that are the loudest in their threats are the weakest in the execution of them.
Those that come unsought for are commonly the most valuable, and should be secured, because they seldom return.
Those that dare lose a day are dangerously prodigal; those that dare misspend it, desperate.
Those that fly may fight again, / Which he can
never do that's slain.
Those that have loved longest love best.
Those that think must govern those that toil.
Those that with haste will make a mighty fire, / Begin with weak straws.
Those who are bent to do wickedly will never want tempters to urge them on.
Those who are elevated enough in life to reason
and to reflect, yet low enough to keep clear of the venal contagion of a court--these are a nation's strength!
Those who are quite satisfied sit still and do nothing; those who are not quite satisfied are the sole benefactors of the world.
Those who attempt to level never equalise; they load the edifice of society by setting up in the air what the solidity of the structure requires to be on the ground.
Those who attempt to reason us out of our follies, begin at the wrong end, since the attempt naturally presupposes us capable of reason.
Those who bring sunshine to the lives of others cannot keep it from themselves.
Those who can sit at home and gloat over their thousands in silent satisfaction are generally found to do it in plain clothes.
Those who carry much upon their clothes
are remarked for having but little in their pockets.
Those who do nothing generally take to shouting.
Those who dwell in fear dwell next door to hate; and I think it is the cowardice of women that makes them such intense haters.
Those who educate children well are more to be honoured than they who produce them; for these only gave them life, those the art of living well.
Those who first study fate, and say, Fate is the only cause of fortune and misfortune, terrify themselves.
Those who give the first shock to a state are
naturally the first to be overwhelmed in its ruin. The fruits of public commotion are seldom enjoyed by the man who was the first to set it a-going; he only troubles the waters for another's net.
Those who have even studied good books may still be fools.
Those who injure one party to benefit another are quite as unjust as if they converted the property of others to their own benefit.
Those who make the best use of their time have none to spare.
Those who make the worst use of their time most complain of its shortness.
Those who only run after little things will not
go far.
Those who profess most are ever the least sincere.
Those who regularly undertake to cultivate friendship find ingratitude generally repays their endeavours.
Those who seek for something more than happiness in this world must not complain if happiness be not their portion.
Those who seem to doubt or deny us what is justly ours, let us either pity their prejudice or despise their judgment.
Those who set their minds to deny things, and
are fond of pulling things to pieces, must be treated like deniers-of-motion; one need only keep incessantly walking up and down before them in as composed a manner as possible.
Those who trust us educate us.
Those who will not be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock.
Those who would make us feel must feel themselves.
Thou art Heaven's tasker; and thy God requires / The purest of thy flour, as well as of thy fires.
Thou art ignorant of what thou art, and much
more ignorant of what is fit for thee.
Thou art in the end what thou art.
Thou art not alone if thou have faith. There is a communion of saints, unseen, yet not unreal, accompanying and brotherlike embracing thee, so thou be worthy.
Thou art the ruin of the noblest man / That ever lived in the tide of times.
Thou art thyself to all eternity.
Thou awakest us to delight in thy praise; for
thou madest us for thyself, and our heart is restless until it repose in thee.
Thou bear'st thy heavy riches but a journey, / And death unloads thee.
Thou canst not be entirely free till thou hast attained to such a mastery as entirely to subdue and deny thyself.
Thou dost not strive, O Sun, but, meek and still, / Thou dost the type of Jesus best fulfil, / A noiseless revelation in the sky.
Thou hast given me / A world of earthly blessings to my soul, / If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.
Thou hast not what others have, and others
have not the gift thou hast. From this imperfection springs sociability.
Thou little thinkest what a little foolery governs the world.
Thou mayest as well expect to grow stronger by always eating, as wiser by always reading.
Thou mayest be more prodigal of praise when thou writest a letter than when thou speakest in presence.
Thou must learn to break thine own will in many things if thou wilt have peace and concord with others.
Thou must live unto another if thou wilt live
unto thyself.
Thou must renounce; thou must abstain! is the eternal song which sounds in the ears of every one, which every hour is singing to us all our life long.
Thou, Nature, art my goddess; to thy law / My services are bound.
Thou of an independent mind, / With soul resolved, with soul resigned; / Prepared Power's proudest frown to brave, / Who wilt not be, nor have a slave; / Virtue alone who dost revere, / Thy own reproach alone dost fear, / Approach this shrine
and worship here.
Thou shall hear no more complaints from me; thou shalt hear only what happens to the wanderer.
"Thou shalt" is written upon life in characters
as legible as "Thou shalt not."
Thou shalt look outward, not inward.
Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn.
Thou, too curious ear, that fain / Wouldst thread the maze of Harmony, / Content thee with one simple strain, / ... Till thou art duly trained, and taught / The concord sweet of Love divine.
Thou who didst the stars and sunbeams know, / Self-schooled, self-scanned, self-honoured, self-secure, / Didst walk on earth unguessed at.
Thou! why, thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast. Thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes.... Thy head is full of quarrels as an egg is full of meat.
Thou wilt never sell thy life, or any part of thy life, in a satisfactory manner. Give it like a royal heart; let the price of it be nothing; then hast thou in a certain sense got all for it.
Thou would'st as soon go kindle fire with snow, / As seek to quench the fire of love with words.
Thou wouldst do little for God if the devil
were dead.
Though a man may become learned by another's learning, he never can be wise but by his own wisdom.
Though a sinner do evil an hundred times, and his days be prolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before him.
Though all his works abroad, / The heart benevolent and kind / The most resembles God.
Though ambition in itself is a vice, yet it is often the parent of virtues.
Though an honourable title may be conveyed
to posterity, yet the ennobling qualities which are the soul of greatness are a sort of incommunicable perfections, and cannot be transferred.
Though gentle, yet not dull, / Strong without rage, without o'erflowing, full.
Though great the force of little words, / Sped in an evil hour, / As great the might, and great the good, / Of one in Wisdom's power.
Though He comes in many shapes, / His love is throbbing in them all, / And from His love no soul escapes, / And from His mercy none can fall.
Though he says nothing, he pays it with thinking, like the Welshman's jackdaw.
Though He slay me, I shall yet trust in Him.
Though I am always in haste, I am never in a hurry.
Though justice be thy plea, consider this--/ That in the course of justice none of us / Should see salvation.
Though last, not least.
Though little fire grows great with little wind, / Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all.
Though losses and crosses / Be lessons right
severe, / There's wit there ye'll get there, / Ye'll find nae ither where.
Though lost to sight, to memory dear.
Though love cannot plant morals in the human breast, it cultivates them when there.
Though much is taken, much abides.
Though old the thought and oft repress'd, / 'Tis his at last who says it best.
Though peace be in every man's wishes, yet
the qualifications and predispositions necessary for procuring and preserving it are the care of very few.
Though scorn's malignant glances / Prove him poorest of his clan, / He's the noble--who advances / Freedom, and the cause of Man!
Though stars in skies may disappear, / And angry tempests gather, / The happy hour may soon be near / That brings us pleasant weather.
Though the cat winks a while, yet sure she is not blind.
Though the heavens fall, the orbs of truth and justice fall not.
Though the world exists for thought, thought
is daunted in presence of the world.
Though this be madness, yet there is method in't.
Though thousands hate physic, because of the cost, / Yet thousands it helpeth, that else should be lost.
Though we lose our fortune, yet we should not lose our patience.
Though wisdom wake, suspicion sleeps / At wisdom's gate; and to simplicity / Resigns her charge, while goodness thinks no ill where no ill seems.
Though you can fret me, you cannot play upon
me.
Though you had the wisdom of Newton or the wit of Swift, garrulousness would lower you in the eyes of your fellow-creatures.
Though you stroke the nettle ever so kindly, yet it will sting you.
Thought and science follow their own law of development; they are slowly elaborated in the growth and forward pressure of humanity, in what Shakespeare calls ... The prophetic soul / Of the wide world dreaming on things to come.
Thought discovered is the more possessed.
Thought disturbs the world, and thought of
God / Unsettles most of all; for it is life, / And only life can comprehend its force, / Or guide it.
Thought expands, but lames; action animates, but narrows.
Thought is deeper than all speech; / Feeling deeper than all thought; / Souls to souls can never teach / What unto themselves was taught.
Thought is free.
Thought is like opium: it can intoxicate us while it leaves us broad awake.
Thought is silence.
Thought is the property of him who can entertain it, and of him who can adequately place it.
Thought is the seed of action; but action is as much its second form as thought is its first. It rises in thought, to the end that it may be uttered and acted. The more profound the thought, the more burdensome. Always in proportion to the depth of its sense does it knock importunately at the gates of the soul, to be spoken, to be done.
Thought is the wind, knowledge the sail, and mankind the vessel.
Thought means life, since those who do not think do not live in any high or real sense. Thinking makes the man.
Thought once awakened does not again slumber.
Thought takes man out of servitude into freedom.
Thought, true labour of any kind, highest
virtue itself, is it not the daughter of pain? Born as out of the black whirlwind; true effort in fact, as of a captive struggling to free itself--that is thought.
Thought without reverence is barren, perhaps poisonous; at best dies, like cookery, with the day that called it forth.
Thought works in silence, so does virtue.
Thoughtlessness is precisely the chief public calamity of our day.
Thoughts are but dreams till their effects be tried.
Thoughts are not always at our beck; we
must wait till they come.
Thoughts
fool; / And time, that takes survey of all the world, / Must have a stop.
Thoughts are your own; your words are so no more.
Thoughts come into our minds by avenues which we never left open, and thoughts go out of our minds through avenues which we never voluntary opened.
Thoughts shut up want air, and spoil, like bales unopened to the sun.
Thoughts take up no room.
Thoughts that breathe and words that burn.
Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears.
Thoughts that voluntary move / Harmonious numbers.
Thoughts we have had and pictures we have seen can be recalled by the mind; but the heart is not so obliging; it does not reproduce our pleasing emotions.
Threaten the threatener, and outface the
brow / Of bragging horror; so shall inferior eyes, / That borrow their behaviours from the great, / Grow great by your example, and put on / The dauntless spirit of resolution.
Threatened folks live long.
Three may keep a secret--if two of them are dead.
Three poets in three distant ages born, / Greece, Italy, and England did adorn. / The first in loftiness of thought surpass'd; / The next, in majesty; in both, the last. / The force of Nature could no further go; / To make a third, she join'd the former two.
Three removes are as bad as a fire.
Three things drive a man out of doors--smoke,
a leaking roof, and a scolding wife.
Three things that enrich genius are contentment of mind, the cherishing of good thoughts, and the exercise of memory.
Three thousand miles of ocean space are less impressive than three miles bounded by rugged mountain walls.
Three women and a goose make a market.
Thrice happy he who without rigour saves.
Thrice happy life that's from ambition free.
Thrice is he arm'd that hath his quarrel just; / And he but naked, though locked up in steel, / Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted.
Thrift must begin with little savings.
Thrifty be, but not covetous.
Through certain humours or passions, and from temper merely, a man may be completely miserable, let his outward circumstances be ever so fortunate.
Through every star, through every grass
blade, and most through every living soul, the glory of a present God still beams.
Through steep ascents, through strait and rugged ways, / Ourselves to glory's lofty seats we raise: / In vain he hopes to reach the bless'd abode / Who leaves the narrow path for the more easy road.
Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear; / Robes and furr'd gowns hide all.
Through "the ruins of a falling era," not once missing his footing.
Through want of enterprise and faith men are where they are, buying and selling, and spending their lives like serfs.
Through wisdom is an house builded; and by
understanding it is established; and by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all precious and pleasant riches.
Throw no gift again at the giver's head; / Better is half a loaf than no bread.
Throw physic to the dogs; I'll none of it.
Thu' nur das Rechte in deinen Sachen, / Das Andre wird sich von selber machen
Thursday come, and the week's gone.
Thus grief still treads upon the heels of pleasure;
/ Married in haste, we may repent at leisure.
Thus the native hue of resolution / Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought.
Thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges.
Thus we play the fools with the time; and the spirits of the wise sit in the clouds, and mock us.
Thus when I shun Scylla, your father, I fall into Charybdis, your mother.
Thus with the year / Seasons return; but not
to me returns / Day, or the sweet approach of even or morn, / Or sight of vernal bloom or summer's rose, / Or flocks, or herds, or human face divine; / But cloud instead, and ever-during dark / Surrounds me.
Thy actions, and thy actions alone, determine thy worth.
Thy friend put in thy bosom; wear his eyes / Still in thy heart, that he may see what's there. / If cause require, thou art his sacrifice.... / But love is lost; the way of friendship's gone.
Thy hand is never the worse for doing thy own work.
Thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women.
Thy nature / It is too full of the milk of human
kindness / To catch the nearest way.
Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power.
Thy praise or dispraise is to me alike, / One doth not stroke me, nor the other strike.
Thy secret is thy prisoner.
Thy soul was like a star and dwelt apart.
Thy spirit, Independence, let me share; / Lord
of the lion-heart and eagle-eye! / Thy steps I follow with my bosom bare, / Nor heed the storm that howls along the sky!
Thy sum of duty let two words contain; / Be humble and be just.
Thy true beginning and Father is in heaven, whom with the bodily eye thou shalt never behold, but only with the spiritual.
Thy wish was father, Harry, to that thought.
Tibi nullum periculum esse perspicio, quod quidem sejunctum sit ab omnium interitu
Tickle me, Bobby, and I'll tickle you.
Tie up thy fears. / He that forbears / To suit and serve his need, / Deserves his load.
Tie your camel up as best you can, and then trust it to Providence.
Tief und ernstlich denkende Menschen haben gegen das Publikum einen bösen Stand
Tief zu denken und schön zu empfinden ist Vielen gegeben; Dichter ist nur, wer schön sagt was er dacht' und empfand
Tiens à la vérité
Tiens à ta foy
Tiers état
Till the hand ... from reed or string / Draws out faint echoes of the voice Divine / That bring God nearer to a faithless world.
Time and chance can do nothing for those who will do nothing for themselves. Providence itself can scarcely save a people who are not prepared to make a struggle for their safety.
Time and I against any two.
Time and space are not God, but creations of God; with God, as it is a universal Here, so is it an everlasting Now.
Time and thinking tame the strongest grief.
Time antiquates antiquities, and hath an art to make dust of all things.
Time, as it is, cannot stay; / Nor again, as it was, can it be; / Disappearing and passing away / Are the world, and the ages, and we.
Time brings roses.
Time conquers all, and we must time obey.
Time consecrates; and what is grey with age becomes religion.
Time destroys the speculations of man, but it confirms the judgment of nature.
Time devours all things.
Time dissipates to shining ether the solid
angularity of facts.
Time drinketh up the essence of every great and noble action which ought to be performed, and is delayed in the execution.
Time elaborately thrown away.
Time gives prudence; the lord of time, inspiration; the one is a reward, the other a gift.
Time has a strange contracting influence on many a wide-spread fame.
Time has only a relative existence.
Time incessantly hasteneth on; he seeks for perfection; if thou art true, thou canst cast fetters eternal on him.
Time is a continual over-dropping of moments, which fall down one upon the other and evaporate.
Time is a strange thing. It is a whimsical tyrant, which in every century has a different face for all that one says and does.
Time is a wonder-working god. In one hour many thousand grains of sand run out, so quickly do thoughts stir in the minds of men.
Time is but a stream I go a-fishing in. I
drink at it; but while I drink I see the sandy bottom, and detect how shallow it is. Its thin current slides away, but eternity remains. I would drink deeper, fish in the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars.
Time is but the measure of the difficulty of a conception. Pure thought has scarcely any need of time, since it perceives the two ends of an idea almost the same moment.
Time is eternity, / Pregnant with all eternity can give.
Time is generally the best doctor.
Time is incalculably long, and every day is a vessel into which very much may be poured, if one will really fill it up.
Time is like a fashionable host, / That slightly
shakes his parting guest by the hand; / And with his arms outstretched, as he would fly, / Grasps in the comer.
Time is like a river, in which metals and solid substances are sunk, while chaff and straws swim upon the surface.
Time is money.
Time is never more misspent than while we declaim against the want of it.
Time is of more value than type, and the wear and tear of temper than an extra page of index.
Time is the chrysalis of eternity.
Time is the life of the soul. If not this, then tell me what is time?
Time is the most undefinable yet paradoxical of things; the past is gone, the future is not come, and the present becomes the past, even while we attempt to define it, and, like the flash of the lightning, at once exists and expires.
Time is the nurse and breeder of all good.
Time is the old Justice that examines all offenders.
Time is the stuff life is made of.
Time is the wheel-track in which we roll on towards eternity.
Time is trouble and the author of destruction; he seizeth even from afar.
Time reposes on eternity; the truly great and
transcendental has its basis and substance in eternity; stands revealed to us as eternity in a vesture of time.
Time shall unfold what plaited cunning hides: / Who cover faults, at last shame them derides.
Time, that black and narrow isthmus between two eternities.
Time the shuttle drives, but you / Give to every thread its hue, / And elect your destiny.
Time trieth truth.
Time was when a Christian used to apologise
for being happy. But the day has always been when he ought to apologise for being miserable.
Time wasted is existence; used, is life.
Time, when well husbanded, is like a cultivated field, of which a few acres produce more of what is useful to life, than extensive provinces, even of the richest soil, when overrun with weeds and brambles.
Time, which deadens hatred, secretly strengthens love; and in the hour of threatened separation its growth is manifested at once in radiant brightness.
Time will discover everything to posterity; it is a babbler, and speaks even when no question is put.
Time works great changes.
Time writes no wrinkle on thine azure brow; / Such as creation's dawn beheld, thou rollest now.
Time's best gift to us is serenity.
Time's noblest offspring is the last.
Time's the king of men; / He's both their parent and he is their grave, / And gives them what he will, not what they crave.
Time's waters will not ebb nor stay; / Power
cannot change them, but Love may; / What cannot be, Love counts it done.
Timely advised, the coming evil shun; / Better not do the deed, than weep it done.
Timeo Danaos, et dona ferentes
Times of general calamity and confusion have ever been productive of the greatest minds.
Timet pudorem
Timidi mater non flet
Timidus se vocat cautum, parcum sordidus
Timor Domini fons vitæ
Tinsel reflects the sun, but warms nothing.
Tired Nature's sweet restorer, balmy Sleep! / He, like the world, his ready visit pays / Where Fortune smiles; the wretched he forsakes: / Swift on his downy pinions flies from woe, / And lights on lids unsullied with a tear.
Tirer le diable par la queue
Tirer les marrons du feu avec la patte du chat
Tirez le rideau; la farce est jouée
'Tis a consummation / Devoutly to be wished.
'Tis a cruelty / To load a falling man.
'Tis a folly to fret; grief's no comfort.
'Tis a good ill that comes alone.
'Tis a kind of good deed to say well: / And yet words are no deeds.
'Tis a lucky day, boy, and we'll do good deeds on't.
'Tis a physic that's bitter to sweet end.
'Tis a question whether adversity or prosperity
makes the most poets.
'Tis a vile thing to die ... / When men are unprepar'd and look not for it.
'Tis all one to be a witch as to be counted one.
'Tis always a delightful thing to see the human understanding following its imprescriptible rights in spite of all hindrances, and hurrying eagerly towards the utmost possible agreement between ideas and objects.
'Tis an economy of time to read old and famed books.
'Tis an old maxim in the schools / That flattery's
the food of fools; / Yet now and then your men of wit / Will condescend to take a bit.
'Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud; / 'Tis virtue that doth make them most admired; / 'Tis government that makes them seem divine.
'Tis better to be lowly born, / And range with humble livers in content, / Than to be perked up in a glistering grief, / And wear a golden sorrow.
'Tis better to cry over your goods than after them.
'Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never to have loved at all.
'Tis but a base, ignoble mind / That mounts no higher than a bird can soar.
'Tis but lame kindness that does its work by halves.
'Tis, by comparison, an easy task / Earth to despise; but to converse with heaven--/ This is not easy.
'Tis certainly much easier for a man to restrain himself from talking at all, than to enter into discourse without saying more than becomes him.
'Tis day still while the sun shines.
'Tis death to me to be at enmity; / I hate it, and desire all good men's love.
'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view, / And robes the mountain in its azure hue.
'Tis education forms the common mind, / Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclined.
'Tis ever common that men are merriest when they are from home.
'Tis expectation makes a blessing dear; /
Heaven were not heaven if we knew what it were.
'Tis God / Diffused through all that doth make all one whole.
'Tis heaven alone that is given away; / 'Tis only God may be had for the asking.
'Tis impossible you should take true root, but by the fair weather that you make yourself; it is needful that you frame the season for your own harvest.
'Tis, in fact, utter folly to ask whether a person has anything from himself, or whether he has it from others, whether he operates by himself, or operates by means of others. The main point is to have a great will, and skill and perseverance to carry it out. All else is indifferent.
'Tis life itself to love.
'Tis life reveals to each his genuine worth.
'Tis little we can do for each other.
'Tis long since death had the majority.
'Tis mad idolatry / To make the service greater than the god.
'Tis my opinion 'tis necessary to be happy,
that we think no place more agreeable than that where we are.
'Tis my vocation, Hal; 'tis no sin for a man to labour in his vocation.
'Tis not a lip, or eye, we beauty call, / But the joint force and full result of all.
'Tis not always necessary that truth should be embodied; it is sufficient if it hovers about in the spirit, producing harmony; if, like the chime of bells, it vibrates through the air solemnly and kindly.
'Tis not enough to keep the feeble up, / But to support them after.
'Tis not enough when swarming faults are
writ, / That here and there are scatter'd sparks of wit.
'Tis not enough your counsel still be true; / Blunt truths more mischief than nice falsehoods do.
'Tis not in mortals to command success, / But we'll do more, Sempronius--we'll deserve it.
'Tis not prudent, 'tis not well, to meet / With purposed misconception any man, / Let him be who he may.
'Tis not so above: / There is no shuffling; there the action lies / In its true nature.
'Tis not the drinking that is to be blamed, but
the excess.
'Tis not the whole of life to live, / Nor all of death to die.
'Tis not want, but rather abundance, that creates avarice.
'Tis not what man does which exalts him, but what man would do.
'Tis not worth while quarrelling with the world, simply to afford it some amusement.
'Tis now the very witching time of night, /
When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out / Contagion to this world.
'Tis only humanity as a whole that perceives Nature, only men collectively that live the life of man.
'Tis only in Rome one can duly prepare one's self for Rome.
'Tis only in the forehead Nature plants the watchful eye; the back, without defence, must find its shield in man's fidelity.
'Tis only noble to be good; / Kind hearts are more than coronets, / And simple faith than Norman blood.
'Tis only strict precision of thought that confers
facility of expression.
'Tis only woman's womanly beauty that makes a true queen; wherever she appears, and by her mere presence, she asserts her sovereignty.
'Tis pleasant, sure, to see one's name in print; / A book's a book, although there's nothing in't.
'Tis rashness to conclude affairs in a lost condition because some crosses have baulked your expectations.
'Tis said fantastic ocean doth unfold the likeness of whate'er on land is seen.
'Tis said that virtue dwells sublime / On
rugged cliffs, full hard to climb; / ... But mortal ne'er her form may see, / Unless his restless energy / Breaks forth in sweat that gains the goal, / The perfect manhood of the soul.
'Tis strange; / And oftentimes to win us to our harm, / The instruments of darkness tell us truths; / Win us with honest trifles, to betray 's, / In deepest consequence.
'Tis sweet to hear of heroes dead, / To know them still alive, / But sweeter if we earn their bread, / And in us they survive.
'Tis the curse of service; preferment goes by letter and affection, not by the old gradation where each second stood heir to the first.
'Tis the divinity that stirs within us; / 'Tis heaven itself that points out an hereafter, / And intimates eternity to man.
'Tis the fate of the noblest soul to sigh vainly
for a reflection of itself.
'Tis the fine souls who serve us, and not what is called fine society.
'Tis the fulness of man that runs over into objects, and makes his Bibles and Shakespeares and Homers so great.
'Tis the good reader that makes the good book; a good head cannot read amiss; in every book he finds passages which seem confidences, or asides, hidden from all else and unmistakably meant for his ear.
'Tis the mind that makes the body rich; / And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds, / So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
'Tis the old secret of the gods that they come in low disguises. 'Tis the vulgar great who come dizened with gold and jewels.
'Tis the part of a poor spirit to undervalue
himself and blush.
'Tis the same to him who wears a shoe as if the whole earth were thatched with leather.
'Tis the sublime of man, / Our noontide majesty, to know ourselves / Parts and proportions of one wondrous whole! / This fraternises man, this constitutes / Our charities and bearings.
'Tis this
'Tis too much proved that, with devotion's visage / And pious action, we do sugar o'er / The devil himself.
'Tis well for once to do everything one can do,
in order to have the merit of knowing one's self more intimately.
'Tis well to be merry and wise, / 'Tis well to be honest and true; / 'Tis well to be off with the old love / Before you are on with the new.
'Tis when sovereigns build, carters are kept employed.
'Tis with our judgments as our watches; none / Go just alike, yet each believes his own.
Tit for tat is fair play.
Titles and mottoes to books are like escutcheons
and dignities in the hands of a king. The wise sometimes condescend to accept of them; but none but a fool would imagine them of any real importance. We ought to depend upon intrinsic merit, and not the slender helps of the title.
Titles of honour add not to his worth who is himself an honour to his title.
Titles of honour conferred upon such as have no personal merit are at best but the royal stamp set upon base metal.
Titus, amor et deliciæ humani generis
To a child in confinement its mother's knee is a binding-post.
To a dog the choicest thing in the world is a
dog: to an ox, an ox; to an ass, an ass; and to a sow, a sow.
To a father waxing old nothing is dearer than a daughter.
To a father, when his child dies, the future dies; to a child when his parents die, the past dies.
To a new truth nothing is more mischievous than an old error.
To a poet nothing can be useless.
To accuse a man of lying is as much as to say
he is brave towards God and a coward towards man.
To achieve great things a man must so live as if he had never to die.
To acquire certainty in the appreciation of things exactly as they are, and to know them in their due subordination, and in their proper relation to one another--this is really the highest enjoyment to which we ought to aspire, whether in the sphere of art, of nature, or of life.
To act is easy, to think is hard; to act according to our thought is troublesome.
To act with a purpose is what raises man above the brutes; to invent with a purpose, to imitate with a purpose, is that which distinguishes genius from the petty artists who only invent to invent, and imitate to imitate.
To adhere to what is set down in them, and
appropriate to one's self what one can for moral strengthening and culture, is the only edifying purpose to which we can turn the Gospels.
To affect a quality is just to confess that you have not got it.
To aim at excellence, our reputation, our friends, and our all must be ventured; by aiming only at mediocrity, we run no risk and we do little service.
To an ill-conditioned being all pleasure is like delicate wine in a mouth embittered with gall.
To answer a question so as to admit of no reply, is the test of a man.
To appear well-bred, a man must actually be
so.
To appreciate the noble is a gain which can never be torn from us.
To arrive at perfection, a man should have very sincere friends or inveterate enemies; because he would be made sensible of his good or ill conduct, either by the censures of the one or the admonitions of the other.
To attack vices in the abstract without touching persons, may be safe fighting indeed, but it is fighting with shadows.
To banish care, scare away sorrow, and soothe pain is the business of the poet, or singer
To be a good poet and painter genius is required,
and this cannot be communicated.
To be a man's own fool is bad enough; but the vain man is everybody's.
To be a philosopher is but a retreat from the world, as it is man's, into the world, as it is God's.
To be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live, according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimity, and trust. It is to solve some of the problems of life, not only theoretically, but practically.
To be a poet is to have a soul in which knowledge passes instantaneously into feeling, and feeling flashes back as a new organ of knowledge.
To be able simply to say of a man he has character, is not only saying much of him, but extolling him; for this is a rarity which excites respect and wonder.
To be able to be silent shows power; to be willing to be silent shows forbearance
To be able to be silent shows power; to be willing to be silent shows forbearance 
To be able to be silent shows power; to be willing to be silent shows forbearance  spirit of the time.
To be acquainted with the merit of a Ministry, we need only observe the condition of the people.
To be always lamenting and always complaining without raising and nerving one's self to resignation, is to lose at once both earth and heaven, and have nothing over but a watery sentimentalism.
To be always thinking about your manners is
not the way to make them good; because the very perfection of manners is not to think about yourself.
To be an enthusiast is to be the worthiest of affection, the noblest and the best that a mortal can be.
To be angry is to avenge the faults of others upon ourselves.
To be as good as our fathers, we must be better. Imitation is not discipleship. When some one sent a cracked plate to China to have a set made, every piece in the new set had a crack in it.
To be bodily tranquil, to speak little, and to digest without effort are absolutely necessary to grandeur of mind or of presence, or to proper development of genius.
To be born in a duck's nest in a farmyard is of
no consequence to a bird if it is hatched from a swan's egg.
To be born with a silver spoon in the mouth.
To be borne seems to many ever more kingly than to bear; and a ship carried with the breeze is, in their eyes, a lordlier spectacle than when it stands against it, victoriously braving it.
To be disobedient through temptation is human sin; but to be disobedient for the sake of disobedience, fiendish sin. To be obedient for the sake of success in conduct is human virtue; to be obedient for the sake of obedience, angelic virtue.
To be ever beloved, one must be ever agreeable.
To be free is not to do nothing, but to be the
sole arbiter of what we do and what we leave undone.
To be good and disagreeable is high treason against the royalty of virtue.
To be great is to be misunderstood.
To be great one must be positive, and gain strength through foes.
To be guided in the right path by those who know better than they is the first "right of man," compared with which all other rights are as nothing.
To be happy is not the purpose of our being,
but to deserve happiness.
To be happy means to be sufficient for one's self.
To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man picked out of ten thousand.
To be idle and to be poor have always been reproaches; and therefore every man endeavours with his utmost care to hide his poverty from others, and his idleness from himself.
To be ill thought of is sometimes for thy good, ... if thou seek not thy own glory, but His that sent thee, the affliction will not be very grievous to be borne.
To be in too great a hurry to discharge an
obligation is itself a kind of ingratitude.
To be introduced into a decent company, there is need of a dress cut according to the taste of the public to which one wishes to present one's self.
To be magnanimous--mighty of heart, mighty of mind--is to be great in life; to become this increasingly is to "advance in life."
To be mindful of an absent friend in the hours of mirth and feasting, when his company is least wanted, shows no slight degree of sincerity.
To be misunderstood is the cross and bitterness of life.
To be obliged to wear black, and buy it into
the bargain, is more than my tranquillity of temper can bear.
To be once in doubt is once to be resolved.
To be, or not to be, that is the question; / Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer / The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, / Or to take up arms against a sea of troubles, / And, by opposing, end them.
To be perfectly just, is an attribute of the divine nature; to be so to the utmost of our abilities is the glory of man.
To be poor, and to seem poor, is a certain method never to rise.
To be prepared for war is one of the most
effectual means of preserving peace.
To be provoked with every slanderous word argues a littleness of soul, a want of due regard to God.
To be rich is to have a ticket of admission to the master-works and chief men of each race.
To be seventy years young is sometimes far more cheerful and hopeful than to be forty years old.
To be spiritually minded is life and peace.
To be thus is nothing; / But to be safely thus.
To be true in heart and just in act are the first qualities necessary for the elevation of humanity.
To be vain is rather a mark of humility than pride.
To be vain of one's rank or place is to disclose that one is below it.
To be weak is miserable, / Doing or suffering.
To be wholly loved with the whole heart, one
must be suffering.
To be wise and love exceeds man's might.
To be without a servant in this world is not good; but to be without a master, it appears, is a still fataller predicament for some.
To be without passion is worse than a beast; to be without reason is to be less than a man.
To be wroth with one we love, / Doth work like madness in the brain.
To be young is to be as one of the immortals.
To bear is to conquer our fate.
To become properly acquainted with a truth, we must first have disbelieved it and disputed against it.
To beguile the time, / Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye, / Your hand, your tongue; look like the innocent flower, / But be the serpent under 't.
To believe your own thought, to believe that what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men--that is genius.
To blow is not to play the flute; you must move the fingers as well.
To breed a fresh soul, is it not like brooding a
fresh (celestial) egg, wherein as yet all is formless, powerless? Yet by degrees organic elements and fibres shoot through the watery albumen; out of vague sensation grows thought, grows fantasy and force, and we have philosophies, dynasties, nay, poetries and religions.
To bring nations to surrender themselves to new ideas is not the affair of a day.
To bring the generality of admirers on our side, it is sufficient to attempt pleasing a very few.
To business that we love we rise betime, / And go to 't with delight.
To call a man ungrateful is to sum up all the evil he can be guilty of.
To carry on the feelings of childhood into the
powers of manhood, to combine the child's sense of wonder and novelty with the appearances which every day, for perhaps forty years, has rendered familiar; this is the character and privilege of genius, and one of the marks which distinguish genius from talent.
To cast away a virtuous friend is as bad as to cast away one's own life, which one loves best.
To catch dame Fortune's golden smile, / Assiduous wait upon her; / And gather gear by ev'ry wile / That's justified by honour; / Not for to hide it in a hedge, / Nor for a train attendant, / But for the glorious privilege / Of being independent.
To circumstances and custom the law must yield.
To climb a tree to catch a fish is talking much and doing nothing.
To climb steep hills requires slow pace at first.
To confess Christ is, first, to believe righteously, truthfully, and continently; and, then, to separate ourselves from those who are manifestly or by profession rogues, liars, and fornicators.
To conquer inclination is difficult, but if habit, taking root, gradually associates itself with it, then it is unconquerable.
To conquer without danger would be to conquer without glory.
To consume your own choler, as some chimneys consume their own smoke; to keep a whole Satanic school spouting, if it must spout, inaudibly, is a negative yet no slight virtue, nor one of the commonest in these times.
To corporeal beings unthought-of troubles
arise; so, in like manner, do blessings make their appearance. In this, I think Providence hath extended them farther than usual.
To dance attendance on their lordships' pleasures.
To-day comes only once, and never again returns.
To-day is a king in disguise.
To-day is ours, we have it here, ... / To the gods belong to-morrow.
To-day must not borrow of to-morrow.
To deny is easy; nothing is sooner learned or more generally practised. As matters go, we need no man of polish to teach it; but rather, if possible, a hundred men of wisdom to show us its limits and teach us its reverse.
To depersonalise man is the dominant drift of our epoch.
To despise our own species is the price we must too often pay for a knowledge of it.
To die for truth is not to die for one's country but to die for the world.
To die is landing on some silent shore, / Where
billows never break nor tempests roar.
To die, to sleep; / No more; and by a sleep to say we end / The heartache and the thousand natural shocks / That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation / Devoutly to be wished.
To die, to sleep; / No more! perchance to dream; ay, there's the rub; / For in that sleep of death what dreams may come, / When we have shuffled off this mortal coil, / Must give us pause.
To do as much good and as little evil as we can is the brief and intelligible principle that comprehends all subordinate maxims.
To do easily what is difficult for others is the mark of talent.
To do good to the ungrateful is to throw rosewater
into the sea.
To do him any wrong was to beget / A kindness from him, for his heart was rich, / Of such fine mould, that if you sow'd therein / The seed of Hate, it blossom'd Charity.
To do justice and judgment is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice.
To do no evil is good; to intend none is better.
To do nothing by halves is the way of noble minds.
To do, one must be doing.
To do what is impossible for talent is the mark of genius.
To doubt is to dip love in the mire.
To draw a long bow
To dread no eye, and to suspect no tongue, is the greatest prerogative of innocence; an exemption granted only to invariable virtue.
To dwell alone is the fate of all great souls.
To each nation its believed history is its Bible.
To eat or drink too much, to play too much,
to work too much, or to grumble too much--all these are equally pernicious.
To educate the intelligence is to enlarge the horizon of its desires and wants.
To educate the wise man, the State exists; and with the appearance of the wise man, the State expires. The wise man is the State.
To elevate above the spirit of the age must be regarded as the end of education.
To endeavour all one's days to fortify our minds with learning and philosophy is to spend so much in armour that one has nothing left to defend.
To endeavour to work upon the vulgar with
fine sense is like attempting to hew blocks with a razor.
To endure is the first and most necessary lesson a child has to learn.
To equal a predecessor, one must have twice his worth.
To err is human, to forgive divine.
To escape from arrangements that tortured me, my heart sought refuge in the world of ideas, when as yet I was unacquainted with the world of realities, from which iron bars excluded me.
To every deep there is a deeper still.
To everything there is a season.
To excite a fierce dog to capture a lame rabbit is to attack a contemptible enemy.
To expect an author to talk as he writes is ridiculous: or even if he did, you would find fault with him as a pedant.
To express the most difficult matters clearly, and everything intelligibly, is to strike coins out of pure gold.
To fail at all is to fail utterly.
To fear is easy, but grievous; to reverence is difficult, but satisfactory.
To fear the foe, since fear oppresseth strength, / Gives, in your weakness, strength unto your foe.
To feel and respect a great personality, one must be something one's self.
To fight and die is death destroying death; / Where fearing dying, pays death servile breath.
To fight with its neighbours never was, and is
now less than ever, the real trade of England.
To fill the hour, that is happiness.
To find out your real opinion of any one, observe the impression made upon you by the first sight of a letter from him.
To find recreation in amusement is not happiness.
To fix a child's attention on what is present, to give him a description of a name, is the best thing we can do for him.
To forget a wrong is the best revenge.
To forgive and forget is to throw away dearly-bought experience.
To form a poet, the heart must be full to overflowing of noble feeling.
To free a man from error is to give, and not to take away.
To gain what is fit ye're able, / If ye in faith can but excel; / Such are the myths of fable, / If ye have observed them well.
To gather riches do not hazard health; / For,
truth to say, health is the wealth of wealth.
To genius irregularity is incident, and the greatest genius is often marked by eccentricity, as if it disdained to move in the vulgar orbit.
To genius life never grows commonplace.
To get general ideas first and make particular observations last is to invert the process of education.
To gild refined gold, to paint the lily, / To throw a perfume on the violet, / To smooth the ice, or add another hue / Unto the rainbow, or with taper-light / To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish, / Is wasteful and ridiculous excess.
To give alms is nothing unless you give
thought also, and therefore it is written, not "Blessed is he that feedeth the poor," but "Blessed is he that considereth the poor."
To give should be our pleasure, but to receive our shame.
To give the world more than it gives us, to love it more than it loves us, and never to make suit for its applause, ensures a peaceful life and a happy departure.
To give to the human mind a direction which it shall retain for ages is the rare prerogative of a few imperial spirits.
To go back is easy, if we have missed our way on the road uphill; it is impossible only when the road is downhill.
To go beyond the bounds of moderation is to
outrage humanity.
To God belongeth the east and the west; therefore, whithersoever ye turn yourselves to pray, there is the word of God, for God is omnipresent and omniscient.
To govern men, you must either excel them in their accomplishments or despise them.
To grasp, to seize, is the essence of all mastery.
To great evils one must oppose great virtues; and also to small, which is the harder task of the two.
To guard from error is not the instructor's
business; but to lead the erring pupil.
To guide scoundrels by love is a method that will not hold together; hardly for the flower of men will love do; and for the sediment and scoundrelism of them it has not even a chance to do.
To have a respect for ourselves guides our morals; and to have a deference for others governs our manners.
To have all one's wants satisfied is something intolerable.
To have any chance of lasting, a book must satisfy, not merely some fleeting fancy of the day, but a constant longing and hunger of human nature.
To have ascertained what is ascertainable, and calmly to reverence what is not, is the fairest portion that can fall to a thinking man.
To have done anything by which you earned
money merely is to have been truly idle, or worse.
To have done, is to hang / Quite out of fashion, like a rusty mail, / In monumental mockery.
To have gold is to be in fear, and to want it to be in sorrow.
To have heard the voice / Of Godhead in the winds and in the seas, / To have known him in the circling of the suns, / And in the changeful fates and lives of men.
To have ideas is to gather flowers; to think is to weave them into garlands.
To have neither superior, nor inferior, nor
equal, united manlike to you; without father, without child, without brother,--man knows no sadder destiny.
To have no assistance from other minds in resolving doubts, in appeasing scruples, in balancing deliberations, is a very wretched destitution.
To have no pain, and not be bored, is the utmost happiness possible to man on earth.
To have read the greatest works of any great poet, to have beheld or heard the greatest works of any great painter or musician, is a possession added to the best things of life.
To have religion upon authority, and not upon conviction, is like a finger-watch, to be set forwards or backwards, as he pleases that has it in keeping.
To have the fear of God before our eyes, and,
in our mutual dealings with each other, to govern our actions by the eternal measures of right and wrong; the first of these will comprehend the duties of religion; the second, those of morality.
To have the gift of life and bread to sustain it with can never suffice as a substitute for the ministry and service which the life itself is given us that we may fulfil. To find and work out this is man's only satisfaction and true reward.
To hear complaints is wearisome alike to the wretched and the happy.
To Him no high, no low, no great, no small; / He fills, He bounds, connects and equals all.
To him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin.
To his
save his sign-post and himself.
To hold, as 'twere, the mirror up to nature.
To holy tears, / In lonely hours, Christ risen appears; / In social hours, who Christ would see / Must turn all tasks to charity.
To imitate the style of another is said to be wearing a mask. However beautiful it may be, it is through its lifelessness insipid and intolerable, so that even the most ugly living face is more engaging.
To improve the golden moment of opportunity, and catch the good that is within our reach, is the great art of life.
To judge by the event is an error all abuse
and all commit; for in every instance, courage, if crowned with success, is heroism; if clouded by defeat, temerity.
To judge is to see clearly, to care for what is just.
To keep the wolf from the door.
To know a man, observe how he wins his object, rather than how he loses it; for when we fail, our pride supports us,--when we succeed, it betrays us.
To know by rote is no knowledge; it is only to retain in the memory what is entrusted to it.
To know evil of others and not speak it, is
sometimes discretion; to speak evil of others and not know it, is always dishonesty. He may be evil himself who speaks good of others upon knowledge, but he can never be good himself who speaks evil of others upon suspicion.
To know how to dissemble is the knowledge of kings.
To know how to grow old is the master-work of wisdom, and one of the most difficult chapters in the great art of living.
To know how to suggest is the great art of teaching.
To know how to wait is the great secret of success.
To know life we must detach ourselves from
life.
To know my deed, 'twere best not know myself.
To know of some one here and there with whom we accord, who is living on with us even in silence, this makes our earthly ball a peopled garden.
To know one profession only, is enough for one man to know.
To know / That which before us lies in daily life, / Is the prime wisdom.
To know the divine laws and inner harmonies
of this universe must always be the highest glory for a man; and not to know them always the highest disgrace for a man, however common it be.
To know the true opinions of men, one ought to pay more respect to their actions than their words.
To know the world, a modern phrase! a modern phrase / For visits, ombre, balls, and plays.
To know, to esteem, to love, and then to part, / Makes up life's tale to many a feeling heart.
To know; to get into the truth of anything, is ever a mystic act, of which the best logics can only babble on the surface.
To know what is useful and what useless, and to be skilful to provide the one and wise to scorn the other, is the first need for all industrious men.
To lament the past is vain; what remains is to look for hope in futurity.
To lapse in fulness / Is sorer than to lie for need; and falsehood / Is worse in kings than beggars.
To learn obeying is the fundamental art of governing.
To live by one man's will became the cause of
all men's misery.
To live happily only means to live tolerably.
To live in hearts we leave behind / Is not to die.
To live is not to breathe; it is to act.
To live is to achieve a perpetual triumph.
To live long is to outlive much.
To look at things as well as we can, to inscribe them in our memory, to be observant, and let no day pass without gathering something; then to apply one's self to those branches of knowledge which give the mind a sure direction, to apportion everything its place, to assign to everything its value (in my opinion a genuine philosophy and a fundamental mathesis), this is what we have now to do.
To lose one's self in revery, one must be either very happy or very unhappy. Revery is the child of extreme.
To love and to be loved is the greatest happiness of existence.
To love all mankind, from the greatest to the lowest, a cheerful state of being is required; but in order to see into mankind, into life, and still more into ourselves, suffering is requisite.
To love early and marry late is to hear a lark
singing at dawn, and at night to eat it roasted for supper.
To love is to be useful to yourself; to cause love is to be useful to others.
To maintain one's self on this earth is not a hardship, but a pastime, if we would live simply and wisely.
To mak' a happy fireside clime / To weans and wife, / That's the true pathos and sublime / O' human life.
To make a boy despise his mother's care is the straightest way to make him also despise his Redeemer's voice; and to make him scorn his father and his father's house, the straightest way to make him deny his God and his God's heaven.
To make elaborate preparations for life is one
of the greatest and commonest of human follies.
To make proselytes is the natural ambition of every one.
To make some nook of God's creation a little fruitfuller, better, more worthy of God; to make some human hearts a little wiser, manfuller, happier, more blessed, less accursed! It is work for a God.
To make the common marvellous, as if it were a revelation, is the test of genius.
To man, in this his trial state, / The privilege is given, / When tost by tides of human fate, / To anchor fast in heaven.
To me more dear, congenial to my heart, / One
native charm, than all the gloss of art.
To me the eternal existence of my soul is proved from my idea of activity. If I work incessantly until my death, nature will give me another form of existence when the present can no longer sustain my spirit.
To me the meanest flower that blows can give / Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears.
To men we can give no help, and they hinder us from helping ourselves.
To misconstrue a good thing is a treble wrong--to myself, the action, and the author.
To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow, /                           30 Creeps in this petty pace from day to day, / To the last syllable of recorded time; / And all our yesterdays have lighted fools / To dusty death.
To-morrow is a satire on to-day, and shows its weakness.
"To-morrow, to-morrow, only not to-day," lazy people always say.
To-morrow will I live, the fool does say: / To-day itself's too late; the wise lived yesterday.
To-morrow you will live, you always cry; / In what far country does this morrow lie?
To most men experience is like the stern
lights of a ship, which illumine only the track it has passed.
To mourn a mischief that is past and gone, / Is the next way to draw new mischief on.
To no man does Fortune throw open all the kingdoms of this world, and say: It is thine; choose where thou wilt dwell! To the most she opens hardly the smallest cranny or dog-hutch, and says, not without asperity: There, that is thine while thou canst keep it; nestle thyself there, and bless Heaven!
To no man, whatever his station in life, or his power to serve me, have I ever paid a compliment at the expense of truth.
To nurse the flowers, to root up the weeds, is the business of the gardener.
To obey is the best grace of woman.
To one thing at one time.
To open your windows be ever your care.
To overcome difficulties is to experience the full delight of existence.
To overcome evil with good is good, to resist evil by evil is evil.
To pass through a bustling crowd with its restless
excitement is strange but salutary. All go crossing and recrossing one another, and yet each finds his way and his object. In so great a crowd and bustle one feels himself perfectly calm and solitary.
To persevere / In obstinate condolement, is a course / Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief: / It shows a will most incorrect to heaven.
To persevere in one's duty and to be silent is the best answer to calumny.
To place wit before good sense is to place the superfluous before the necessary.
To plough and sow, to reap and mow, my father bred me early, / For one, he said, to labour bred, was a match for fortune fairly.
To popular religion, the real kingdom of God is the New Jerusalem with its jaspers and emeralds; righteousness and peace and joy are only the kingdom of God figuratively.
To pour oil on the fire is not the way to quench
it.
To prefer one future mode of life to another, upon just reasons, requires faculties which it has not pleased our Creator to give us.
To promise is already to give, to hope already to enjoy.
To prove, as to doubt, the existence of God, is to prove or doubt the existence of existence.
To put the cart before the horse.
To raise the weaker sex in self-respect, as
well as in the esteem of the stronger, is the first step from barbarism to civilisation.
To read without reflecting is like eating without digesting.
To receive a simple primitive phenomenon, to recognise it in its high significance, and to go to work with it, requires a productive spirit, which is able to take a wide survey, and is a rare gift, only to be found in very superior natures.
To receive gifts is to lose liberty.
To reconcile despotism with freedom is to make your despotism just.
To reform a world, to reform a nation, no wise
man will undertake; and all but foolish men know that the only solid, though a far slower, reformation, is what each man begins and perfects on himself.
To reign is worth ambition, though in hell; / Better to reign in hell than serve in heav'n.
To rejoice in the prosperity of another is to partake of it.
To remember one worthy thing, how many thousand unworthy must a man be able to forget!
To repel one's cross is to make it heavier.
To require two things is the way to have them
both undone.
To rescue, to avenge, to instruct, or protect a woman is all the same as to love her.
To revenge is no valour, but to bear.
To run away / Is but a coward's trick; to run away / From this world's ills, that at the very worst / Will soon blow o'er.
To say of a man "He means well," is worth nothing except he does well.
To say that we have a clear conscience is to
utter a solecism; had we never sinned, we would have had no conscience.
To scorn delights and live laborious days.
To secure and promote the feeling of cheerfulness should be the supreme aim of all our endeavours after happiness.
To see a world in a grain of sand / And a heaven in a wild flower, / Hold infinity in the palm of your hand, / And eternity in an hour.
To see and listen to the wicked is already the beginning of wickedness.
To see clearly is poetry, prophecy, and religion--all
in one.
To see her is to love her, / And love but her for ever.
To see some small soul pirouetting throughout life on a single text, and judging all the world because it cannot find a partner, is not a Christian sight.
To see the best is to see most clearly, and it is the lover's privilege.
To seek to change opinions by laws is worse than futile.
To seem and not to be, is throwing the shuttle
without weaving.
To seize a character, even that of one man, in its life and secret mechanism, requires a philosopher; to delineate it with truth and impressiveness, is work for a poet.
To serve from the lowest station upwards
is in 
To serve God and love him is higher and better than happiness, though it be with wounded feet, and bleeding brow, and a heart loaded with sorrow.
To shape the whole future is not our problem; but only to shape faithfully a small part of it, according to rules laid down.
To shoot wide of the mark
To show mercy is nothing--thy soul must be full of mercy; to be pure in act is nothing--thou shalt be pure in heart also.
To sigh, yet feel no pain; / To weep, yet scarce know why; / To sport an hour with beauty's charm, / Then throw it idly by.
To sigh, yet not recede; to grieve, yet not repent.
To simplify complications is, in all branches of knowledge, the first essential of success.
To sow is not so difficult as to reap.
To spend much and gain little is the sure road to ruin.
To spend too much time in studies is sloth.
To spur a free horse soon makes a jade of him.
To step aside is human.
To strain at a gnat and swallow a camel.
To strive to get rid of an evil is to aim at something definite, but to desire a better fortune than we have is blind folly.
To study nature or man, we ought to know things that are in the ordinary course, not the unaccountable things that happen out of it.
To succeed in the world it is much more necessary to be able to diagnose a fool than a clever man.
To talk without effort is, after all, the great charm of talking.
To taste of human flesh is less criminal in the eyes of God than to stifle human thought.
To tax the community for the advantage of a class is not protection; it is plunder, and I disclaim it.
To tell our own secrets is generally folly, but that folly is without guilt; to communicate those with which we are intrusted is always treachery, and treachery for the most part combined with folly.
To the capable man this world is not dumb.
To the exiled wanderer how godlike / The friendly countenance of man appears.
To the Hindu the world is the dream of Brahma.
To the innocent, deliverance and reparation; to the misled, compassion; and to the guilty, avenging justice.
To the man of firm purpose all men and things are servile.
To the minnow every cranny and pebble, and
quality and accident, of its little native creek may have become familiar; but does the minnow understand the ocean tides and periodic currents, the trade-winds, and monsoons, and moon's eclipses; by all of which the condition of its little creek is regulated, and may (from time to time, unmiraculously enough) be quite overset and reversed? Such a minnow is man; his creek, this planet earth; his ocean, the immeasurable All; his monsoons and periodic currents, the mysterious course of Providence through æons of æons.
To the noble mind / Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
To the persevering mortal the blessed immortals are swift.
To the strictly just and virtuous person everything is annexed.
To the understanding of anything, two conditions are equally required--intelligibility in the thing itself being no whit more indispensable than intelligence in the examiner of it.
To the unregenerate Prometheus Vinctus of
a man, it is ever the bitterest aggravation of his wretchedness that he is conscious of virtue, that he feels himself the victim not of suffering only, but of injustice.
To the vulgar eye few things are wonderful that are not distant. It is difficult for men to believe that the man, the mere man whom they see, may perhaps painfully feel, toiling at their side through the poor jostlings of existence, can be made of finer clay than themselves.
To the wisest man, wide as is his vision, Nature remains of quite infinite depth, of quite infinite expansion; and all experience thereof limits itself to some few computed centuries and measured square miles.
To the "Worship of sorrow"
ascribe what origin and genesis thou pleasest, has not that worship originated and been generated? Is it not here? Feel it in thy heart, and then say whether it is of God!
To think and to feel constitute the two grand divisions of men of genius--the men of reasoning and the men of imagination.
To think aright is the sum of human duty.
To think is to act.
To this burden women are born; they must obey their husbands, be they never such blockheads.
To those by whom liberality is practised, the whole world is but as one family.
To those that have lived long together, everything heard and everything seen recalls some pleasure communicated or some benefit conferred, some petty quarrel or some slight endearment.
To those to whom we owe affection, let us be
dumb until we are strong, though we should never be strong.
To those who are fallen into misfortunes, what was a blessing becometh an evil.
To those whose god is honour, disgrace alone is sin.
To threats the stubborn sinner oft is hard, / Wrapp'd in his crimes, against the storm prepared; / But, when the milder beams of mercy play, / He melts, and throws his cumbrous cloak away.
To toy with human hearts is more than human hearts will brook.
To tread upon the brink is safe, but to come a
step further is destruction.
To try things oft, and never to give over, doth wonders.
To understand one thing well is better than understanding many things by halves.
To understand that the sky is blue everywhere, we need not go round the world.
To understand the serious side of things requires a matured faculty; the ridiculous is caught more easily.
To understand things we must once have been
in them, and then have come out of them.
To unpractised eyes, a Peak of Teneriffe, nay, a Strasburg Minster, when we stand on it, may seem higher than a Chimborazo; because the former rise abruptly, without abutement or environment; the latter rises gradually, carrying half a world along with it; and only the deeper azure of the heavens, the widened horizon, the "eternal sunshine," disclose to the geographer that the "region of change" lies far below.
To use books rightly is to go to them for help.
To use studies too much for ornament is affectation.
To vice, innocence must always seem only a superior kind of chicanery.
To wail friends lost / Is not by much so wholesome,
profitable, / As to rejoice at friends but newly found.
To wed unequally is to suffer equally.
To what base uses we may return, Horatio!
To what excesses men go for a religion of whose truth they are so little persuaded, and to whose precepts they pay so little regard.
To what they know best entice all neatly; / For so thou dost thyself and him a pleasure.
To whom is the mere glare of the fire a virtue?
To wilful men / The injuries that they themselves procure / Must be their schoolmasters.
To work without money, and be poor; to work without pleasure, and be chaste; to work according to orders, and be obedient.
To write a good love-letter, you ought to begin
without knowing what you mean to say, and to finish without knowing what you have written.
To write down to children's understandings is a mistake; set them on the scent and let them puzzle it out.
To write prose, one must have something to say, but he who has nothing to say can still make verses.
To write well is to think well, to feel well, and to render well; it is to possess at once intellect, soul, and taste.
To write what is worth publishing, to find honest men to publish it, and get sensible men to read it, are the three great difficulties in authorship.
To yield my breath, / Life's purpose unfulfilled!
this is thy sting, O Death.
To yourself be critic most severe.
Tobacco and opium have broad backs, and will cheerfully carry the load of armies, if you choose to make them pay high for such joy as they give and such harm as they do.
Tocher's nae word in a true lover's parle.
Todte Hunde beissen nicht
Toga virilis
Toil is polish'd man's vocation; / Praises are the meed of skill; / Kings may vaunt their crown and station, / We will vaunt our labour still.
Toil on, faint not, keep watch, and pray.
Toils of empires pleasures are.
Toleration is good for all, or it is good for none.
Tolle jocos; non est jocus esse malignum
Tolle periclum, / Jam vaga prosiliet frænis
natura remotis
Tombs are the clothes of the dead--a grave but a plain suit, and a rich monument one embroidered.
Too austere a philosophy makes few wise men;
too rigorous politics, few good subjects; and too hard a religion, few religious persons whose devotion is of long continuance.
Too early and too thoroughly we cannot be trained to know that Would, in this world of ours, is as mere zero to Should, and, for most part, the smallest of fractions to Shall.
Too elevated qualities often unfit a man for society.
Too fair to worship, too divine to love.
Too low they build who build beneath the stars.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Too many instances there are of daring men, who by presuming to sound the deep things of religion, have cavilled and argued themselves out of all religion.
Too much gravity argues a shallow mind.
Too much idleness, I have observed, fills up a man's time much more completely, and leaves him less his own master, than any sort of employment whatsoever.
Too much is always bad; old proverbs call / Even too much honey nothing else than gall.
Too much mercy is want of mercy.
Too much of a good thing.
Too much of one thing is good for nothing.
Too much painstaking speaks disease in one's mind, as much as too little.
Too much rest is rust.
Too much rest itself becomes a pain.
Too much sensibility creates unhappiness; too much insensibility creates crime.
Too much wit / Makes the world rotten.
Too surely, every setting day, / Some lost delight we mourn.
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
Tooth of time.
Top and bottom teeth sometimes come into awkward collision.
Torrens dicendi copia multis / Et sua mortifera est facundia
Toss'd on a sea of troubles, soul, my soul, / Thyself do thou control; / And to the weapons of advancing foes / A stubborn breast oppose.
Tot capita, tot sensus
Tot homines, quot sententiæ
Tot rami quot arbores
Tota in minimis existit natura
Totidem verbis
Toties quoties
Toto cœlo
Totus in toto, et totus in qualibet parte
Totus mundus exercet histrioniam
Touched by a loving heart, wakened by kindness, / Chords that were broken will vibrate once more.
Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out.
Toujours
Toujours en vedette
Toujours perdrix
"Toujours perdrix" is sickening.
Toujours prêt
Toujours propice
Toujours tout droit, Dieu t'aidera!
Tour d'adresse
Tour de force
Tourner autour du pot
Tourner casaque
Tous frais faits
Tous les genres sont bons hors le genre ennuyeux
Tous les hommes sont foux, et malgré tous leurs soins, / Ne diffèrent entr'eux, que du plus ou du moins
Tous les méchants sont buveurs d'eau; / C'est bien prouvé par le déluge
Tout-à-fait
Tout bien ou rien
Tout chemin mène à Rome
Tout d'en haut
Tout doit tendre au bon sens: mais pour y parvenir / Le chemin est glissant et pénible a tenir
Tout éloge imposteur blesse une âme sincère
Tout est contradiction chez nous: la France, à parler sérieusement, est le royaume de l'esprit et de la sottise, de l'industrie et de la paresse, de la philosophie et du fanatisme, de la gaieté et du pédantisme, des loix et des abus, de bon goût et de l'impertinence
Tout est perdu fors l'honneur
Tout est pour le mieux dans le meilleur des mondes possibles
Tout faiseur de journaux doit tribut au malin
Tout finit par des chansons
Tout flatteur vît au dépens de celui qui l'écoute
Tout notre mal vient de ne pouvoir être seul
Tout par raison
Tout soldat français porte dans sa giberne le bâton de maréchal de France
Tout va à qui n'a pas besoin
Tout vient à point à qui sait attendre
Tout vient de Dieu
Toute révélation d'un secret est la faute de celui qui l'a confié
Toutes les fois que je donne une place vacante, je fais cent mécontents, et un ingrat
Towards great persons use respective boldness: /
That temper gives them theirs, and yet doth take / Nothing from thine.
Towers are measured by their shadows.
Trade's proud empire hastes to swift decay.
Traditions make up the reasonings of the simple, and serve to silence every inquiry.
Traduttori, traditori
Tragedy has the great moral defect of giving
too much importance to life and death.
Tragedy warms the soul, elevates the heart, can and ought to create heroes. In this sense, perhaps, France owes a part of her great actions to Corneille.
Trahit ipse furoris / Impetus, et visum est lenti quæsisse nocentem
Trahit sua quemque voluptas
Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old he will not depart from it.
Tranquil pleasures last the longest. We are
not fitted to bear long the burden of great joys.
Tranquillity is better than jollity, and to appease pain than to invent pleasure.
Transeat in exemplum
Transitory is all human work, small in itself, contemptible; only the worker thereof and the spirit that dwelt in him is significant.
Trau keinem Freunde sonder Mängel, / Und lieb' ein Mädchen, keinen Engel
Travel gives a character of experience to our
knowledge, and brings the figures upon the tablet of memory into strong relief.
Travel in the younger sort is a part of education; in the older, a part of experience.
Travel is the frivolous part of serious lives, and the serious part of frivolous ones.
Travel teaches toleration.
Travelling is a fool's paradise.
Travelling is like gambling; it is ever connected
with winning and losing, and generally where least expected we receive more or less than we hoped for.
Tre lo sanno, tutti lo sanno
Tre taceranno, se due vi non sono
Treachery don't come natural to beaming youth: but trust and pity, love and constancy, they do.
Treason doth never prosper; what's the reason? / Why if it prosper, none dare call it treason.
Treason has done his worst; nor steel, nor
poison, / Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing / Can touch him further.
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but justice delivers from death.
Trees and fields tell me nothing; men are my teachers.
Tremblez, tyrans; vous êtes immortels
Tria juncta in uno
Tribulation will not hurt you unless it does--what,
alas! it too often does--unless it hardens you, and makes you sour and narrow and sceptical.
Tricks and treachery are the practice of fools that have not wit enough to be honest.
Trifles light as air / Are to the jealous confirmations strong / As proofs of holy writ.
Trifles make perfection, but perfection is no trifle.
Trifles make up the happiness or misery of mortal life.
Trifles themselves are elegant in him.
Trifles unconsciously bias us for or against a person from the very beginning.
Trifling precautions will often prevent great mischiefs; as a slight turn of the wrist parries a mortal thrust.
Trinitas in Trinitate
Tristis eris, si solus eris
Triumphs for nothing and lamenting toys, /
Is jollity for apes and grief for boys.
Troops of furies march in the drunkard's triumph.
Trop de zèle gâte tout
Tros Tyriusve mihi nullo discrimine agetur
Trotz alledem und alledem
Trouble is a thing that will come without our
call; but true joy will not spring up without ourselves.
Trouble teaches men how much there is in manhood.
Truditur dies die, / Novæque pergunt interire lunæ
True art is like good company; it constrains us in the most charming way to recognise the standard after which and up to which our innermost being is shaped by culture.
True art, which requires free and healthy faculties, is opposed to pedantry, which crushes the soul under a burden.
True bravery proposes a just end, measures
the dangers, and, if necessary, the affront, with coldness.
True blue will never stain.
True comeliness, which nothing can impair, / Dwells in the mind; all else is vanity and glare.
True coral needs no painter's brush.
True dignity is never gained by place, and never lost when honours are withdrawn.
True ease in writing comes from art, not
chance, / As those move easiest who have learned to dance.
True eloquence consists in saying all that is proper, and nothing more.
True eloquence scorns eloquence.

True fame is ever likened to our shade, / He made / To overtake her; whoso takes his wing, / Regardless of her, she'll be following; / Her true proprietie she thus discovers, / Loves her contemners, and contemns her lovers.
True fortitude I take to be the quiet possession of a man's self, and an undisturbed doing his duty, whatever evil besets him or danger lies in his way.
True fortitude of understanding consists in not
letting what we know be embarrassed by what we do not know.
True friends are the whole world to one another; and he that is a friend to himself is also a friend to mankind. Even in my studies the greatest delight I take is of imparting it to others; for there is no relish to me in the possession of anything without a partner.
True friendship can afford true knowledge. It does not depend on darkness and ignorance.
True friendship is a plant of slow growth, and must undergo and withstand the shocks of adversity before it is entitled to the appellation.
True friendship is like sound health, the value of it is seldom known until it be lost.
True friendship often shows itself in refusing at the right time, and love often grants a hurtful good.
True greatness is, first of all, a thing of the heart.
True heroism consists in being superior to the
ills of life, in whatever shape they may challenge him to combat.
True hope is swift, and flies with swallow's wings; / Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings.
True humility is contentment.
True humour is as closely allied to pity as it is abhorrent to derision.
True humour is sensibility in the most catholic and deepest sense; but it is the sport of sensibility; wholesome and perfect therefore; as it were, the playful teasing fondness of a mother to her child.
True humour springs not more from the head
than from the heart; it is not contempt, its essence is love; it issues not in laughter, but in still smiles, which lie far deeper. It is a sort of inverse sublimity, exalting, as it were, into our affections what is below us, while sublimity draws down into our affections what is above us.
True influence is latent influence.
True joy is a serene and sober motion; and they are miserably out, that take laughing for rejoicing; the seat of it is within, and there is no cheerfulness like the resolutions of a brave mind that has fortune under its feet.
True joy is only hope put out of fear.
True knowledge is of virtues only.
True knowledge of any thing or any creature
is only of the good of it.
True liberty is a positive force, regulated by law; false liberty is a negative force, a release from restraint.
True love is still the same; the torrid zones, / And those more rigid ones, / It must not know; / For love grown cold or hot / Is lust or friendship, not / The thing we show.
True love is that which ennobles the personality, fortifies the heart, and sanctifies the existence.
True love is the parent of a noble humility.
True love will creep, not having strength to
go.
True love works never for the loved one so, / Nor spares skin-surface, smoothing truth away.
True love's the gift which God has given / To man alone beneath the heaven.
True mercy is ashamed of itself; hides itself, and does not complain. You may know it by that.
True modesty avoids everything that is criminal; false modesty everything that is unfashionable.
True morality scorns morality; that is, the
morality of the judgment scorns the morality of the mind, which is without rules.
True music is intended for the ear alone; whoever sings it to me must be invisible.
True nobility is derived from virtue, not birth.
True obedience is true liberty.
True poetry is truer than science, because it is synthetic, and seizes at once what the combination of all the sciences is able, at most, to attain as a final result.
True quietness of heart is gotten by resisting
our passions, not by obeying them.
True religion is always mild, propitious, and humble; plays not the tyrant, plants no faith in blood, nor bears destruction on her chariot-wheels; but stoops to polish, succour, and redress, and builds her grandeur on the public good.
True religion is the poetry of the heart; it has enchantments useful to our manners; it gives us both happiness and virtue.
True religion teaches us to reverence what is under us, to recognise humility and poverty, mockery and despite, wretchedness and disgrace, suffering and death, as things divine.
True repentance consists in the heart being broken for sin, and broken from sin.
True repentance is to cease from sin.
True sense and reason reach their aim / With little help from art or rule. / Be earnest! Then what need to seek / The words that best your meaning speak?
True, sharp, precise thought is preferable to a cloudy fancy; and a hundred acres of solid earth are far more valuable than a million acres of cloud and vapour.
True singing is of the nature of worship; as indeed all true working may be said to be; whereof such singing is but the record, and fit melodious representation, to us.
True statesmanship is the art of changing a nation from what it is into what it ought to be.
True taste is for ever growing, learning, reading,
worshipping, laying its hand upon its mouth because it is astonished, casting its shoes from off its feet because it finds all ground holy.
True valour lies in the middle between cowardice and rashness.
True virtue, being united to heavenly grace of faith, makes up the highest perfection.
True virtue's soul's always in all deeds all.
True wit never made us laugh.
Truly great men are always simple-hearted.
Truly great men are ever most heroic to those most intimate with them.
Truly there is a tide in the affairs of men; but there is no gulf-stream setting for ever in one direction.
Truly unhappy is the man who leaves undone what he can do, and undertakes what he does not understand; no wonder he comes to grief.
Trusse up thy packe, and trudge from me, to every little boy, / And tell them thus from me, their time most happy is, / If to theyr time they reason had, to know the truth of this.
Trust as little as you can to report, and examine all you can by your own senses.
Trust begets truth.
Trust, but not too much.
Trust dies because bad pay poisons him.
Trust him little who praises all, him less who censures all, and him least who is indifferent about all.
Trust in that man's promise who dares to refuse that which he fears he cannot perform.
Trust in the Lord, and do good, so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.
Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and
lean not onto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.
Trust instinct to the end, though you can render no reason.
Trust me not at all or all in all.
Trust me, that for the instructed, time will come / When they shall meet no object but may teach / Some acceptable lesson to their minds / Of human suffering or human joy. / For them shall all things speak of man.
Trust men, and they will be true to you; treat them greatly, and they will show themselves great.
Trust no future, howe'er pleasant; / Let the
dead past bury its dead. / Act, act in the living present; / Heart within, and God o'erhead!
Trust no man who pledges you with his hand on his heart.
Trust not him that hath once broken faith.
Trust not in him that seems a saint.
Trust not the heart of that man for whom old clothes are not venerable.
Trust not this hollow world; she's empty;
hark, she sounds.
Trust not those cunning waters of his eyes, for villany is not without such rheum.
Trust that man in nothing who has not a conscience in everything.
Trust thyself; every heart vibrates to that iron string.
Truth alone wounds.
Truth and fidelity are the pillars of the temple
of the world; when these are broken, the fabric falls, and crushes all to pieces.
Truth and oil are ever above.
Truth being weighed against a thousand Aswamedha sacrifices, was found to be of more consequence than the whole thousand offerings.
Truth contradicts our nature, error does not, and for a very simple reason: truth requires us to regard ourselves as limited, error flatters us to think of ourselves as in one or other way unlimited.
Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again, / The eternal years of God are hers; / But error, wounded, writhes with pain, / And dies among his worshippers.
Truth does not conform itself to us, but we
most conform ourselves to it.
Truth does not consist in minute accuracy of detail, but in conveying a right impression; and there are vague ways of speaking that are truer than strict facts would be. When the Psalmist said, "Rivers of water run down mine eyes, because men keep not thy law," he did not state the fact but he stated a truth deeper than fact and truer.
Truth does not do as much good in the world as the shows of it do of evil.
Truth dwells not in the clouds; the bow that's there / Doth often aim at, never hit the sphere.
Truth for ever on the scaffold, wrong for ever on the throne.
Truth from his lips prevailed with double sway, /
And fools who came to scoff remain'd to pray.
Truth has a quiet breast.
Truth has no gradations; nothing which admits of increase can be so much what it is as truth is truth. There may be a strange thing, and a thing more strange; but if a proposition be true, there can be none more true.
Truth hath always a fast bottom.
Truth hath better deeds than words to grace it.
"Truth," I cried, "though the heavens crush
me for following her; no falsehood, though a whole celestial Lubberland were the price of apostasy!"
Truth in its own essence cannot be / But good.
Truth, in the great practical concerns of life, is so much a question of the reconciling and combining of opposites, that very few have minds sufficiently capacious and impartial to make the adjustment with an approach to correctness.
Truth irritates only those whom it enlightens, but does not convert.
Truth is a good dog; but beware of barking too close to the heels of an error, lest you get your brains kicked out.
Truth is a queen who has her eternal throne
in heaven, and her seat of empire in the heart of God.
Truth is a stronghold, and diligence is laying siege to it; so that it must observe all the avenues and passes to it.
Truth is always consistent with itself and needs nothing to help it out; it is always near at hand, and sits upon our lips, and is ready to drop out before we are aware.
Truth is always strange, stranger than fiction.
Truth is as impossible to be soiled by any outward touch as the sunbeam.
Truth is born with us; and we must do violence to nature, to shake off our veracity.
Truth is God's daughter.
Truth is never learned, in any department of industry, by arguing, but by working and observing.
Truth is one, for ever absolute, but opinion is truth filtered through the moods, the blood, the dispositions of the spectator.
Truth is quite beyond the reach of satire.
Truth is simple and gives little trouble, but falsehood gives occasion for the frittering away of time and strength.
Truth is simple indeed, but we have generally no small trouble in learning to apply it to any practical purpose.
Truth is the body of God, and light his shadow.
Truth is the daughter of Time.
Truth is the easiest part of all to play
 (_stelle dich sel
Present thyself runnest no risk of falling out of thy rôle.
Truth is the highest thing that man may keep.
Truth is the root, but human sympathy is the flower of practical life.
Truth is the shortest and nearest way to our end, carrying us thither in a straight line.
Truth is to be costly to you--of labour and patience; and you are never to sell it, but to guard and to give.
Truth is to be loved purely and solely because
it is true.
Truth is too simple for us; we do not like those who unmask our illusions.
Truth is tough. It will not break, like a bubble, at a touch; nay, you may kick it about all day like a football, and it will be round and full at evening. Does not Mr. Bryant say that Truth gets well if she is run over by a locomotive, while Error dies of lockjaw if she scratches her finger?
Truth is truth to the end of reckoning.
Truth itself shall lose its credit, if delivered by a person that has none.
Truth lies at the bottom of a well, the depth
of which, alas! gives but little hope of release.
Truth, like gold, is not the less so for being newly brought out of the mine.
Truth, like roses, often blossoms upon a thorny stem.
Truth, like the juice of a poppy, in small quantities, calms men; in larger, heats and irritates them, and is attended by fatal consequences in its excess.
Truth, like the sun, submits to be obscured; but, like the sun, only for a time.
Truth, like the Venus de Medici, will pass
down in thirty fragments to posterity; but posterity will collect and recompose them into a goddess.
Truth loves open dealing.
Truth may be stretched, but cannot be broken, and always gets above falsehood, as oil does above water.
Truth may languish, but can never perish.
Truth may lie in laughter, and wisdom in a jest.
Truth may perhaps come to the price of a
pearl, that showeth best by day, but it will not rise to the price of a diamond or carbuncle, that showeth best in varied lights.
Truth, or clothed or naked let it be.
Truth provokes those whom it does not convert.
Truth reaches her full action by degrees, and not at once.
Truth, says Horne Tooke, means simply the thing trowed, the thing believed; and now, from this to the thing itself, what a new fatal deduction have we to suffer.
Truth scarce ever yet carried it by vote anywhere
at its first appearance.
Truth seeks no corners.
Truth shines with its own light; it is not by the flames of funeral piles that the minds of men are illuminated.
Truth should be strenuous and bold; but the strongest things are not always the noisiest, as any one may see who compares scolding with logic.
Truth will be uppermost one time or another like cork, though kept down in the water.
Truth will bear / Neither rude handling, nor
unfair / Evasion of its wards, and mocks / Whoever would falsely enter there.
Truth's a dog that must to kennel. He must be whipped out, when the lady brach may stand by the fire and stink.
Truths are first clouds, then rain, then harvests and food.
Truths that wake, / To perish never.
Try and Trust will move mountains.
Try for yourselves what you can read in half-an-hour, ...
and consider what treasures you might have laid by at the end of the year; and what happiness, fortitude and wisdom they would have given you during all the days of your life.
Try it, ye who think there is nothing in it; try what it is to speak with God behind you.
Try to do your duty, and you at once know what is in you.
Try to forget our cares and our maladies, and contribute, as we can, to the cheerfulness of each other.
Try what repentance can; what can it not? Yet what can it, when one cannot repent?
Tu, Domine, gloria mea
Tu dors, Brutus, et Rome est dans les fers!
Tu ne cede malis, sed contra audentior ito / Quam tua te fortuna sinet
Tu ne quæsieris, scire nefas, quem mihi quem tibi / Finem di dederint, Leuconoë
Tu nihil invita dices faciesve Minerva
Tu pol si sapis, quod scis nescis
Tu quamcunque Deus tibi fortunaverit horam, / Grata sume manu; nec dulcia differ in annum, / Ut quocunque loco fueris, vixisse libenter / Te dicas
Tu quoque
Tu quoque, Brute!
Tu recte vivis, si curas esse quod audis
Tu si animum vicisti, potius quam animus te, est quod gaudeas
Tu si hic sis, aliter sentias
Tu vincula frange
Tua camicia non sappia il secreto
Tua res agitur
Tuebor
Tui me miseret, mei piget
Tunica propior pallio est
Turba Remi sequitur fortunam, ut semper, et odit / Damnatos
Turn, Fortune, turn thy wheel with smile or frown; / With that wild wheel we go not up or down; / Our hoard is little, but our hearts are great.
Turn him to any cause of policy, / The Gordian knot of it he will unloose, / Familiar as his garter.
Turpe est aliud loqui, aliud sentire; quanto turpius aliud scribere, aliud sentire!
Turpe est in patria peregrinari, et in eis rebus
quæ ad patriam pertinent hospitem esse
Turpius ejicitur quam non admittitur hospes
Turris fortissima est nomen Jehovah
Tuta petant alii. Fortuna miserrima tuta est; / Nam timor eventus deterioris abest
Tuta scelera esse possunt, non secura
Tuta timens
Tutte quanti
Tuum est
'Twas doing nothing was his curse--/ Is there a vice can plague us worse?
'Twas strange, 'twas passing strange, / 'Twas pitiful; 'twas wondrous pitiful.
Twenty people can gain money for one who
can use it; and the vital question for individuals and for nations, is never "how much do they make," but "to what purpose do they spend."
'Twere all as good to ease one beast of grief, / As sit and watch the sorrows of the world / In yonder caverns with the priests who pray.
Twist ye, twine ye! even so, / Mingle shades of joy and woe, / Hope, and fear, and peace, and strife, / In the thread of human life.
Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labour.
Two dogs over one bone seldom agree.
Two dogs strive for a bone, and a third runs
away with it.
Two gifts are indispensable to the dramatic poet; one is the power of forgetting himself, the other is the power of remembering his characters.
Two grand tasks have been assigned to the English people--the grand Industrial task of conquering some half, or more, of the terraqueous planet for the use of man; then, secondly, the grand Constitutional task of sharing, in some pacific endurable manner, the fruit of said conquest, and showing all people how it might be done.
Two heads are better than one, or why do folks marry?
Two in distress make sorrow less.
Two is company, but three is none.
Two kitchen fires burn not on one hearth.
Two may keep counsel, putting one away.
Two may talk and one may hear, but three cannot take part in a conversation of the most sincere and searching sort.
Two meanings have our lightest fantasies, / One of the flesh, and of the spirit one.
Two men I honour, and no third. First, the
toilworn craftsman that with earth-made implement laboriously conquers the earth, and makes her man's.... A second man I honour, and still more highly--him who is seen toiling for the spiritually indispensable; not daily bread, but the bread of life.... These two in all their degrees I honour; all else is chaff and dust, which let the wind blow whither it listeth.
Two misfortunes are twice as many at least as are needful to be talked over at one time.
Two of a trade seldom agree.
Two orders of poets I admit, but no third; the creative (Shakespeare, Homer, Dante), and reflective or perceptive (Wordsworth, Keats, Tennyson); and both these must be first-rate in their range.
Two pots stood by a river, one of brass, the other of clay; the water carried them away; the earthen vessel kept aloof from the other.
Two principles in human nature reign--/ Self-love to urge, and reason to restrain.
Two qualities are demanded of a statesman who would direct any great movement of opinion in which he himself takes a part; he must have a complete understanding of the movement itself, and he must be animated by the same motives as those which inspire the movement.
Two removals are as bad as a fire.
Two sorts of writers possess genius; those
who think, and those who cause others to think.
Two stars keep not their motion in one sphere.
Two things a man should never be angry at; what he can help, and what he cannot.
Two things I abhor: the learned in his infidelities, and the fool in his devotions.
Two things strike me dumb: the infinite starry heavens, and the sense of right and wrong in man.
Two things, well considered, would prevent
many quarrels: first, to have it well ascertained whether we are not disputing about terms rather than things; and, secondly, to examine whether that on which we differ is worth contending about.
Type of the wise who soar, but never roam, / True to the kindred points of Heaven and Home.
Tyran, descends du trône, et fais place à ton maître
Tyranny and anarchy are never far asunder.
Tyranny is irresponsible power ... whether the power be lodged in one or many.
Üb' immer Treu und Redlichkeit / Bis an dein
kühles Grab
Über allen Gipfeln / Ist Ruh
Über die Berge mit Ungestüm
Über vieles kann / Der Mensch zum Herrn sich machen, seinen Sinn / Bezwinget kaum die Not und lange Zeit
Überall bin ich zu Hause, / Überall bin ich bekannt
Übereilung thut nicht gut; / Bedachtsamkeit
macht alle Dinge besser
Uberibus semper lacrymis, semperque paratis / In statione sua, atque expectantibus illam / Quo jubeat manare modo
Uberrima fides
Überzeugung soll mir niemand rauben / Wer's besser weiss, der mag es glauben
Ubi amici, ibi opes
Ubi amor condimentum inerit cuivis placiturum
credo
Ubi bene, ibi patria
Ubi dolor, ibi digitus
Ubi homines sunt modi sunt
Ubi idem et maximus et honestissimus amor est, aliquando præstat morte jungi quam vita distrahi
Ubi jus, ibi remedium
Ubi jus incertum, ibi jus nullum
Ubi lapsus? Quid feci?
Ubi major pars est, ibi est totum
Ubi mel, ibi apes
Ubi sæva indignatio cor ulterius lacerare
nequit
Ubi summus imperator non adest ad exercitum, / Citius quod non facto 'st usus fit, quam quod facto 'st opus
Ubi supra
Ubi timor adest, sapientia adesse nequit
Ubi uber, ibi tuber
Ubicunque ars ostentatur, veritas abesse videtur
Ubique
Ubique patriam reminisci
Übung macht den Meister
Ugliest of trades have their moments of pleasure. If I were a grave-digger, or even a hangman, there are some people I could work for with a great deal of enjoyment.
Ulcus tangere
Ulterius ne tende odiis
Ultima ratio regum
Ultima semper / Expectanda dies homini, dicique beatus / Ante obitum nemo supremaque funera debet
Ultima Thule
Ultimatum
Ultimum moriens
Ultimus Romanorum
Ultra posse nemo obligatur
Ultra vires
Um das Leben zu erkennen, muss man sich vom Leben absondern
Um einen Mann zu schätzen, muss man ihn /
Zu prüfen wissen
Um Gut's zu thun, braucht's keiner Ueberlegung; / Der Zweifel ist's, der Gutes böse macht, / Bedenke nicht! gewähre wie du's fühlst
Un ángulo me basta entre mis lares, / Un libro y un amigo, un sueño breve, / Que no perturben deudas ni pesares
Un bienfait reproché tint toujours lieu d'offense
Un bon ami vaut mieux que cent parents
Un bon ouvrier n'est jamais trop chèrement
payé
Un clou chasse l'autre
Un corps débile affaiblit l'âme
Un des plus grands malheurs des honnêtes gens c'est qu'ils sont de lâches
Un Dieu, un roy
Un dîner réchauffé ne valut jamais rien
Un enfant en ouvrant les yeux doit voir la patrie, et jusqu'à la mort ne voir qu'elle
Un fat quelquefois ouvre un avis important
Un fou avise bien un sage
Un frère est un ami donné par la nature
Un gentilhomme qui vit mal est un monstre
dans la nature
Un homme d'esprit seroit souvent bien embarrassé sans la compagnie des sots
Un homme toujours satisfait de lui-même, peu souvent l'est des autres; rarement on l'est de lui
Un homme vous protège par ce qu'il vaut; une femme par ce que vous valez. Voilà pourquoi de ces deux empires, l'un est si odieux, l'autre si doux
Un livre est un ami qui ne trompe jamais
Un menteur est toujours prodigue de serments
Un père est un banquier donné par la nature
Un peu d'encens brulé rajuste bien des choses
Un peu de fiel gâte beaucoup de miel
Un renard n'est pas pris deux fois à un piège
Un sot n'a pas assez d'étoffe pour être bon
Un sot savant est sot plus qu'un sot ignorant
Un sot trouve toujours un plus sot qui l'admire
Un soupir, un regard, un mot de votre bouche, / Voilà l'ambition d'un cœur comme le mien
Un souvenir heureux est peut-être sur terre / Plus vrai que le bonheur
Un "tiens" vaut mieux que deux "tu l'aura"
Un viaggiatore prudente non disprezza mai il suo paese
Una dies aperit, conficit una dies
Una salus victis nullam sperare salutem
Una voce
Unbedingte Thätigkeit, von welcher Art sie
sei, macht zuletzt bankerott
Unbidden guests / Are often welcomest when they are gone.
Unbounded courage and compassion join'd, / Tempting each other in the victor's mind, / Alternately proclaim him good and great, / And make the hero and the man complete.
Uncertainty and expectation are the joys of life.
Uncertainty! fell demon of our fears! The human soul, that can support despair, supports not thee.
Unconsciousness belongs to pure unmixed life; consciousness, to a diseased mixture and conflict of life and death; unconsciousness is the sign of creation; consciousness, at best, that of manufacture. So deep, in this existence of ours, is the significance of mystery.
Unconsciousness is one of the most important conditions of a good style in speaking or in writing.
Und bin ich strafbar, weil ich menschlich
war? Ist Mitleid Sünde?
Und da keiner wollte leiden, / Dass der andre für ihn zahle / Zahlte keiner von den beiden
Und der Mensch versuche die Götter nicht / Und begehre nimmer und nimmer zu schauen, / Was sie gnädig bedecken mit Nacht und Grauen
Und ob die Wolke sie verhülle, / Die Sonne bleibt am Himmelszelt! / Es waltet dort ein heiliger Wille; / Nicht blindem Zufall dient die Welt
Und scheint die Sonne noch so schön, / Am Ende muss sie untergehen
Und vor der Wahrheit mächt'gem Siege /
Verschwindet jedes Werk der Lüge
Und was kein Verstand der Verständigen sieht / Das übet in Einfalt ein kindisch Gemüt
Und wenn die Welt voll Teufel wär' / Und wollt uns gar verschlingen / So fürchten wir uns nicht so sehr, / Es soll uns doch gelingen
Und wenn ich dich lieb habe, was geht es dich an?
Und wenn ihr euch nur selbst vertraut, / Vertrauen euch die andern Seelen
Und wer mich nicht verstehen kann, / Der
lerne besser lesen
Undank ist der Welt Lohn
Unde fames homini vetitorum tanta ciborum est?
Unde habeas quærit nemo; sed oportet habere
Unde / Ingenium par materiæ?
Unde tibi frontem libertatemque parentis, /
Cum facias pejora senex?
Under a despotic government there is no such thing as patriotic feeling, and its place is supplied in other ways, by private interest, public fame, and devotion to one's chief.
Under all sorrow there is the force of virtue; over all ruin, the restoring charity of God. To these alone we have to look; in these alone we may understand the past, and predict the future destiny of the ages.
Under all speech that is good for anything there lies a silence that is better.
Under fair words have a care of fraud.
Under sackcloth there is something else.
Under the sky is no uglier spectacle than two men with clenched teeth and hell-fire eyes hacking one another's flesh, converting precious living bodies and priceless living souls into nameless masses of putrescence, useful only for turnip-manure.
Under the weight of his knowledge, a man cannot move so lightly as in the days of his simplicity.
Under white ashes there often lurk glowing embers.
Underground / Precedency's a jest; vassal and lord, / Grossly familiar, side by side consume.
Underneath this stone doth lie / As much
beauty as could die; / Which in life did harbour give / To more virtue than doth live.
Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it.
Understanding is the most important matter in everything.
Understanding is the wages of a lively faith, and faith is the reward of a humble ignorance.
Undertake no more than you can perform.
Undipped people may be as good as dipped,
if their hearts are clean.
Undique ad inferos tantundem viæ est
Une faute niée est deux fois commise
Une froideur ou une incivilité qui vient de ceux qui sont au-dessus de nous nous les fait haïr, mais un salut ou un sourire nous les réconcilie
Une grande âme est au-dessus de l'injustice, de la douleur, de la moquerie; et elle seroit invulnérable si elle ne souffroit par la compassion
Une nation boutiquière
Une once de vanité gâte un quintal de mérite
Une seule foi, une seule langue, un seul cœur
Une souris qui n'a qu'un trou est bientôt prise
Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
Unendlich ist das Räthsel der Natur
Unendlichkeit kann nur das Wesen ahnen / Das zur Unendlichkeit erkoren ist
Unequal combinations are always disadvantageous to the weaker side.
Unequal marriages are seldom happy ones.
Unextinguish'd laughter shakes the skies.
Unfaith in aught is want of faith in all.
Unfortunate and imprudent are two words for the same thing.
Unfortunately friends too often weigh one another in their hypochondriacal humours, and in an over-exacting spirit. One must weigh men by avoirdupois weight, and not by the jeweller's scales.
Unfortunately, it is more frequently the opinions expressed on things than the things themselves that divide men.
Ung je servirai
Ung roy, ung foy, ung loy
Ungern entdeck' ich höheres Geheimniss
Unguibus et rostro
Unguis in ulcere
Unhappy is the man for whom his own mother
has not made all mothers venerable.
Unhappy lot of man! Hardly has the mind attained maturity, when the body begins to pine away.
Unhappy state of kings! it is well the robe of majesty is gay, or who would put it on?
Unheedful vows may heedfully be broken; / And he wants wit that wants resolvèd will, / To learn his wit to exchange the bad for better.
Uniformity must tire at last, though it be uniformity of excellence. We love to expect, and when expectation is disappointed or gratified, we want to be again expecting.
Uni æquus virtuti, atque ejus amicis
Unica virtus necessaria
Union does everything when it is perfect; it satisfies desires, it simplifies needs, it foresees the wishes of the imagination; it is an aisle always open, and becomes a constant fortune.
Union
their own tribe or with strangers; for even a grain of rice groweth not when divided from its husk.
Union is strength.
Unitate fortior
"United we stand, divided we fall," / It made and preserves us a nation.
Unity, agreement, is always silent or soft-voiced; it is only discord that loudly proclaims itself.
Unity and morality belong to philosophy, not to poetry.
Unity and simplicity are the two true sources of beauty. Supreme beauty resides in God.
Uniforms are often masks.
Universal love is a glove without fingers, which fits all hands alike, and none closely; but true affection is like a glove with fingers, which fits one hand only, and sits close to that one.
Universal plodding prisons up / The nimble spirits in the arteries, / As motion and long-during action tires / The sinewy vigour of the traveller.
Universal suffrage I will consult about the quality of New Orleans pork or the coarser kinds of Irish butter; but as to the character of men, I will if possible ask it no question.
Universus mundus exercet histrioniam
Unjust acquisition is like a barbed arrow,
which must be drawn backward with horrible anguish, or else will be your destruction.
Unkind language is sure to produce the fruits of unkindness, that is, suffering in the bosom of others.
Unkindness destroys love.
Unkindness has no remedy at law; let its avoidance be with you a point of honour.
Unknell'd, uncoffin'd, and unknown.
Unlawful desires are punished after the effect
of enjoying; but impossible desires are punished in the desire itself.
Unlearn not what you have learned.
Unlearned men of books assume the care, / As eunuchs are the guardians of the fair.
Unless a man can link his written thoughts with the everlasting wants of men, so that they shall draw from them as from wells, there is no more immortality to the thoughts and feelings of the soul than to the muscles and the bones.
Unless a man works he cannot find out what he is able to do.
Unless a tree has borne blossoms in spring,
you will vainly look for fruit on it in autumn.
Unless above himself he can / Erect himself, how poor a thing is man!
Unless music exalt and purify, virtually it is not music at all.
Unless quickened from above and from within, art has in it nothing beyond itself which is visible beauty.
Unless the people can be kept in total darkness, it is the wisest way for the advocates of truth to give them full light.
Unless we are accustomed to them from early youth, splendid chambers and elegant furniture are for people who neither have nor can have any thoughts.
Unless we can cast off the prejudices of the man and become as children, docile and unperverted, we need never hope to enter the temple of philosophy.
Unless we place our religion and our treasure in the same thing, religion will always be sacrificed.
Unless we see our object, how shall we know
how to place or prize it in our understanding, our imagination, our affections?
Unlesson'd girl, unschool'd, unpractised; / Happy in this, she is not yet so old / But she may learn.
Unlike my subject now shall be my song; / It shall be witty, but it shan't be long.
Unlike the sun, intellectual luminaries shine brightest after they set.
Unmarried men are best friends, best masters, best servants, but not always best subjects; for they are light to run away, and almost all fugitives are of that condition.
Unmingled good cannot be expected; but as
we may lawfully gather all the good within our reach, we may be allowed to lament over that which we lose.
Unmingled joys to no one here befall; / Who least, hath some; who most, hath never all.
Unmöglich ist's, was Edle nicht vermögen
Unnatural deeds / Do breed unnatural troubles: infected minds / To their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets.
Unnumbered suppliants crowd preferment's gate, / Athirst for wealth, and burning to be great; / Delusive fortune hears the incessant call, / They mount, they shine, evaporate, and fall.
Uno avulso non deficit alter
Uno ictu
Uno impetu
Uno levanto la caza, y otro la mata
Unproductive truth is none. But there are products which cannot be weighed in patent scales, or brought to market.
Unpublished nature will have its whole secret
told.
Unreasonable haste is the direct road to error.
Unreflective minds possess thoughts only as a jug does water, by containing them. In a disciplined mind knowledge exists like vital force in the physical frame, ready to be directed to tongue, or hand, or foot, hither, thither, anywhere, and for any use desired.
Unseasonable mirth always turns to sorrow.
Unselfish and noble acts are the most radiant epochs in the biography of souls. When wrought in the earliest youth, they lie in the memory of age like the coral islands, green and sunny amidst the melancholy waste of ocean.
Unser Gefühl für Natur gleicht der Empfindung
des Kranken für die Gesundheit
Unsociable tempers are contracted in solitude, which will in the end not fail of corrupting the understanding as well as the manners, and of utterly disqualifying a man for the satisfactions and duties of life. Men must be taken as they are, and we neither make them nor ourselves better by flying from or quarrelling with them.
Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel.
Unstained thoughts do seldom dream on evil; / Birds never limed no secret bushes fear.
Unstät treiben die Gedanken / Auf dem Meer der Leidenschaft
Unsterblich ist was einmal hat gelebt
Unsterblich sein, das ist der Dichtkunst Los
Unter allen Völkerschaften haben die Griechen den Traum des Lebens am schönsten geträumt
Unter mancherlei wunderlichen Albernheiten der Schulen kommt mir keine so vollkommen lächerlich vor, als der Streit über die Aechtheit alter Schriften, alter Werke. Ist es denn der Autor oder die Schrift die wir bewundern oder tadeln? es ist immer nur der Autor, den wir vor uns haben; was kümmern uns die Namen, wenn wir ein Geisteswerk auslegen?
Unthinking, idle, wild, and young, / I laughed, and danced, and talked, and sung.
Until men have learned industry, economy, and
self-control, they cannot be safely intrusted with wealth.
Until you know as much about other people's affairs as they do themselves, it is not very safe to laugh at them or to find fault with them.
Unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance; but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he seemeth to have.

Unto him who works, and feels he works, / ever at the doors.
Unto the pure all things are pure.
Unto the youth should be shown the worth of
a noble and ripened age, and unto the old man, youth; that both may rejoice in the eternal circle, and life may in life be made perfect.
Untwine me from the mass / Of deeds which make up life, one deed / Power shall fall short in or exceed.
Unum pro multis dabitur caput
Unus et idem
Unus Pellæo juveni non sufficit orbis; / Æstuat infelix angusto limite mundi
Unus vir nullus vir
Unvanquished Time, the conqueror of conquerors, and lord of desolation.
Unverhofft kommt oft
Unverzeihlich find' ich den Leichtsinn; doch liegt er im Menschen
Unwept, unhonour'd, and unsung.
Unwilling service earns no thanks.
Unwise work, if it but persist, is everywhere struggling towards correction and restoration to health; for it is still in contact with Nature, and all Nature incessantly contradicts it, and will heal it or annihilate it; not so with unwise talk, which addresses itself, regardless of veridical Nature, to the universal suffrages; and can, if it be dexterous, find harbour there, till all the suffrages are bankrupt and gone to Houndsditch.
Unworthy offspring brag most of their worthy descent.
Uom, se' tu grande o vil? Muori, e il saprai
Up and try.
Up from unfeeling mould, / To seraphs burning
round the Almighty's throne, / Life rising still on life, in higher tone, / Perfection forms, and with perfection bliss.
Up! up! my friend, and quit your books, / Or surely you'll grow double. / Up! up! my friend, and clear your looks, / Why all this toil and trouble?
Upbraiding turns a benefit into an injury.
Upon every occasion, be sure to make a conscience of what you do or say.
Upon the common course of life must our thoughts and our conversation be generally employed.
Upon the education of the people of this
country the fate of this country depends.
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper / Sprinkle cool patience.
Uprightness, judgment, and sympathy with others will profit thee at every time and in every place.
Urbem lateritiam invenit, marmoream reliquit
Urbem quam dicunt Romam, Melibœe, putavi, / Stultus ego, huic nostræ similem
Urbem venalem et mature perituram, si emptorem
invenerit
Urbes constituit ætas: hora dissolvit. Momento fit cinis, diu sylva
Urbi et orbi
Urit enim fulgore suo, qui prægravat artes / Infra se positas: exstinctus amabitur idem
Ursprünglich eignen Sinn lass dir nicht rauben! / Woran die Menge glaubt, ist leicht zu glauben
Urticæ proxima sæpe rosa est
Use almost can change the stamp of nature, / And either curb the devil or throw him out.
Use doth breed a habit in a man.
Use every man after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping? Use them after your own honour and dignity; the less they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
Use him
Use is the judge, the law, and rule of speech.
Use makes a better soldier than the most urgent considerations of duty--familiarity with danger enabling him to estimate the danger. He sees how much is the risk, and is not afflicted with imagination; knows practically Marshal Saxe's rule, that every soldier killed costs the enemy his weight in lead.
Use sin as it will use you; spare it not, for it will not spare you: it is your murderer, and the murderer of the whole world. Use it, therefore, as a murderer should be used; kill it before it kills you; and though it bring you to the grave, it shall not be able to keep you there.
Use sometimes to be alone.
Use the pen; there is no magic in it, but it keeps the mind from staggering about.
Use thy youth so that thou mayest have comfort
to remember it when it hath forsaken thee, and not sigh and grieve at the account thereof. Use it as the springtime which soon departeth, and wherein thou oughtest to plant and sow all provisions for a long and happy life.
Used with due abstinence, hope acts as a healthful tonic; intemperately indulged, as an enervating opiate. The visions of future triumph, which at first animate exertion, if dwelt upon too intently, will usurp the place of the stern reality; and noble objects will be contemplated, not for their own inherent worth, but on account of the day-dreams they engender. Thus hope, aided by imagination, makes one man a hero, another a somnambulist, and a third a lunatic; while it renders them all enthusiasts.
Useful be where thou livest, that they may / Both want and wish thy pleasing presence still. / Kindness, good parts, great places, are the way / To compass this.
Usefulness comes by labour, wit by ease.
Usque ad aras
Usque ad nauseam
Usque adeone mori miserum est?
Usque adeone / Scire tuum nihil est, nisi te scire hoc sciat alter?
Usually speaking, the worst-bred person in company is a young traveller just returned from abroad.
Usury is a "concessum propter duritiam cordis"
(a concession on account of hardness of heart); 
(a concession on account of hardness of heart);  and lending, and men are so hard of heart as they will not lend freely, usury must be permitted.
Usus est tyrannus
Usus promptum facit
Ut ager, quamvis fertilis, sine cultura fructuosus esse non potest, sic sine doctrina animus
Ut canis e Nilo
Ut desint vires, tamen est laudanda voluntas
Ut homines sunt, ita morem geras; / Vita quam sit brevis, simul cogita
Ut homo est, ita morem geras
Ut infra
Ut metus ad omnes, pœna ad paucos perveniret
Ut mos est
Ut pictura, poësis
Ut placeas, debes immemor esse tui
Ut plerique solent, naso suspendis adunco / Ignotos
Ut possedis
Ut prosim
Ut quimus, quando ut volumus non licet
Ut quisque contemtissimus et ludibrio est, ita
solutæ linguæ est
Ut ridentibus arrident, ita flentibus adflent, / Humani vultus
Ut sæpe summa ingenia in occulto latent!
Ut sementem feceris, ita et metes
Ut sunt humana, nihil est perpetuum
Ut sunt molles in calamitate mortalium animi!
Ut supra
Utendum est ætate; cito pede labitur ætas
Uterque bonus belli pacisque minister
Utile dulci
Utinam tam facile vera invenire possem, quam
falsa convincere!
Utopia
Utque alios industria, ita hunc ignavia ad famam protulerat
Utrum horum mavis accipe
Utrumque vitium est, et omnibus credere et nulli
Uttered out of time, or concealed in its season,
good savoureth of evil.
Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath, / That the rude sea grew civil at her song, / And certain stars shot madly from their spheres / To hear the sea-maid's music.
Uxorem, Posthume, ducis? / Dic qua Tisiphone, quibus exagitare colubris
Uxori nubere nolo meæ
Vache ne sait ce que vaut sa queue jusqu'à-ce-qu'elle l'ait perdue
Vacuus cantat coram latrone viator
Vade in pace
Vade mecum
Vade retro!
Væ victis!
Vaillant et veillant
Vain for the rude craftsman to attempt the beautiful; only one diamond can polish another.
Vain hope to make people happy by politics!
Vain is the help of man.
Vain man would be wise, though man be born like a wild ass's colt.
Vain men delight in telling what honours have been done them, what great company they have kept, and the like; by which they plainly confess that these honours were more than their due.
Vain people are loquacious; and proud, taciturn.
Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye.
Vain to send the purblind or blind to the shore
of a Pactolus never so golden: these find only gravel; the seer and finder alone picks up golden grains there.
Vain, very vain, my weary search to find / That bliss which only centres in the mind.
Vainglory blossoms, but never bears.
Val meglio piegarsi che rompersi
Val più un asino vivo che un dottore morto
Val più un' oncia di discrezione che una libra
di sapere
Valeant mendacia vatum
Valeat quantum valere potest
Valeat res ludicra, si me / Palma negata macrum, donata reducit opimum
Valet anchora virtus
Valet ima summis / Mutare, et insignem attenuat
Deus, / Obscura promens
Validius est naturæ testimonium quam doctrinæ argumentum
Valour consists in the power of self-recovery.
Valour in distress challenges respect, even from an enemy.
Valour is the fountain of Pity too;--of Truth, and all that is great and good in man.
Valour is worth little without discretion.
Valour would cease to be a virtue if there were no injustice.
Vana quoque ad veros accessit fama timores
Vanitas vanitatum, et omnia vanitas
Vanity and coarse pride give gold; friendship and love give flowers.
Vanity Fair.
Vanity, however artfully concealed or openly displayed, always counteracts its own purposes.
Vanity in an old man is charming. It is a proof of an open nature. Eighty winters have not frozen him up or taught him concealments. In a young person it is simply allowable; we do not expect him to be above it.
Vanity is a blue-bottle, which buzzes in the window of the wise.
Vanity is of a divisive, not a uniting nature.
Vanity is rather a mark of humility than pride.
Vanity is so anchored in the heart of man that the lowest drudge must boast and have his admirers; and the philosophers themselves desire the same.
Vanity is the food of fools.
Vanity is the pride of Nature.
Vanity is the vice of low minds; a man of spirit is too proud to be vain.
Vare, Vare, redde mihi legiones meas!
Variæ lectiones
Varietas delectat
Variety alone gives joy; / The sweetest meats the soonest cloy.
Variety is the condition of harmony.
Variety is the mother of enjoyment.
Variety is the principal ingredient in beauty; and simplicity is essential to grandeur.
Variety of mere nothings gives more pleasure than uniformity of somethings.
Variety's the very spice of life, / That gives it all its flavour.
Variorum notæ
Varium et mutabile semper / Fœmina
Vary and intermingle speech of the present occasion with arguments, tales with reasons, asking of questions with telling of opinions, and jest with earnest; for it is a dull thing to tire, and, as we say now, to jade anything too far.
Vast chain of being! / From Nature's chain whatever link you strike / Tenth or ten thousandth breaks the chain alike.
Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself, / And falls on the other.
Vaux mieux avoir affaire à Dieu qu'à ses saints
Vectigalia nervi sunt reipublicæ
Vedentem thus et odores
Vedi Napoli, e poi muori
Vehemens in utramque partem, aut largitate nimia aut parsimonia
Veiosque habitante Camillo, / Illic Roma fuit
Vel cæco appareat
Vel capillus habet umbram suam
Velis et remis
Vellem nescire literas!
Velocem tardus assequitur
Velocius ac citius nos / Corrumpunt vitiorum exempla domestica, magnis / Cum subeant animos auctoribus
Velox consilium sequitur pœnitentia
Veluti in speculum
Velvet paws hide sharp claws.
Vendere fumos
Vendetta boccon di Dio
Veneering oft outshines the solid wood.
Venerable to me is the hard hand--crooked,
coarse--wherein, notwithstanding, lies a cunning virtue, indefeasibly royal, as of the sceptre of this planet. Venerable, too, is the rugged face, all weather-tanned, besoiled, with its rude intelligence; for it is the face of a man living manlike.
Vengeance belongeth unto me; I will recompense, saith the Lord.
Vengeance has no foresight.
Vengeance
Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord.
Vengeance is wild justice.
Vengeance taken will often tear the heart and torment the conscience.
Veni, Creator Spiritus
Veni, vidi, vici
Venia necessitati datur
Venient annis / Sæcula seris, quibus Oceanus /
Vincula rerum laxet, et ingens / Pateat tellus, Tiphysque novos / Detegat orbes; nec sit terris / Ultima thule
Venire facias
Venit summa dies et ineluctabile tempus / Dardaniæ
Vent au visage rend un homme sage
Ventis secundis
Ventre à terre--At full speed; with all one's
might.
Ventre affamé n'a point d'oreilles
Ventum ad supremum est
Ventum seminabant et turbinem metent
Venus, if men at sea you save, / And rescue from the whirling wave, / Me too, a lover, I implore, / Save from worse shipwreck here on shore.
Venus is beautiful, no doubt; but the artist
that created her is more beautiful still.
Venus will not charm so much without her attendant Graces, as they will without her.
Ver non semper viret
Vera redit facies, dissimulata perit
Verachtung ist der wahre Tod
Verba dat omnis amans
Verba facit mortuo
Verba ligant homines, taurorum cornua funes
Verba rebus aptare
Verba volant, scripta manent
Verbaque provisam rem non invita sequentur
Verbatim et literatim
Verbi causa
Verbo tenus
Verborum paupertas, imo egestas
Verbosa ac grandis epistola venit / A Capreis
Verbum Dei manet in æternum
Verbum Domini manet in æternum
Verbum sat sapienti
Verbunden werden auch die Schwachen mächtig
Vergebens dass ihr ringums wissenschaftlich
schweift, / Ein jeder lernt nur was er lernen kann!
Vergieb soviel du kannst, und gieb soviel du hast
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and the spirit
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and the spirit that is, and of life), 
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and the spirit that is, and of life),  of God.
Veritas, a quocunque dicitur, a Deo est
Veritas et virtus vincunt
Veritas nihil veretur nisi abscondi
Veritas non recipit magis ac minus
Veritas odium parit
Veritas temporis filia
Veritas vel mendacio corrumpitur vel silentio
Veritas victrix
Veritas vincit
Veritas visu et mora, falsa festinatione et
incertis valescunt
Veritatis simplex oratio est
Vérité sans peur
Verletzen ist leicht, heilen schwer
Vermögen sucht Vermögen
Vernunft und Wissenschaft, / Des Menschen
allerhöchste Kraft!
Versate diu, quid ferre recusent, / Quid valeant humeri
Verschoben ist nicht aufgehoben
Verse itself is an absurdity except as an expression of some higher movement of the mind, or as an expedient to lift other minds to the same ideal level.
Verstand ist mechanischer, Witz ist chemischer, Genie organischer Geist
Verstellung ist der offnen Seele fremd
Verstellung, sagt man, sei ein grosses Laster, / Doch von Verstellung leben wir
Vertere seria ludo
Vertrauen erweckt Vertrauen
Verum ubi plura nitent in carmine, non ego paucis / Offendar maculis
Verus amicus est is qui est tanquam alter idem
Verwelkt, entblättert, zertreten sogar / Von rohen Schicksalsfüssen--/ Mein Freund, das ist auf Erden das Los / Von allem Schönen und Süssen
Very few enjoy money, because they can't get enough.
Very few men acquire wealth in such a manner as to receive pleasure from it.
Very few men, properly speaking, live at present, but are providing to live another time.
Very few people are good economists of their
fortune, and still fewer of their time.
Very fine pagoda if ye could get any sort of god to put in it.
Very great benefactors to the rich, or those whom they call people at their ease, are your persons of no consequence.
Very learned women are to be met with, just as female warriors; but they are seldom or never inventors.
Very like a whale.
Verzeih dir nichts und den Andern viel
Verzeihn ist leicht, allein vergessen schwer
Verzeiht! Es ist ein gross Ergötzen / Sich in den Geist der Zeiten zu versetzen, / Zu schauen, wie vor uns ein weiser Mann gedacht, / Und wie wir's dann zuletzt so herrlich weit gebracht
Vestibulum domus ornamentum est
Vestigia morientis libertatis
Vestigia nulla retrorsum
Vestigia terrent
Vestis virum facit
Vetera extollimus, recentium incuriosi
Vetustas pro lege semper habetur
Vi et armis
Via crucis, via lucis
Via media
Via trita est tutissima
Via trita, via tuta
Viam qui nescit qua deveniat ad mare, / Eum
oportet amnem quærere comitem sibi
Viamque insiste domandi, / Dum faciles animi juvenum, dum mobilis ætas
Vice
Vice is a monster of such frightful mien, / As to be hated needs but to be seen; / Yet seen too often, familiar with her face, / We first endure, then pity, then embrace.
Vice is its own punishment.
Vice is learned without a schoolmaster.
Vice itself lost half its evil by losing all its grossness.
Vice, like disease, floats in the atmosphere.
Vice versa
Vicissitudes of fortune, which spares neither man nor the proudest of his works, which buries empires and cities in a common grave.
Vicisti Galilæe!
Victoria concordia crescit
Victoriæ gloria merces
Victory belongs to the most persevering.
Victory or Westminster Abbey.
Victrix causa Diis placuit, sed victa Catoni
Victrix fortunæ sapientia
Vide licet
Vide ut supra
Video meliora proboque, / Deteriora sequor
Viel Klagen hör' ich oft erheben / Vom Hochmut, den der Grosse übt. / Der Grossen Hochmut wird sich geben, / Wenn unsre Kriecherei sich giebt
Viel Rettungsmittel bietest du? Was heisst' es? / Die beste Rettung, Gegenwart des Geistes
Viele Freunde und wenige Nothhelfer
Vieles wünscht sich der Mensch, und doch bedarf er nur wenig; / Denn die Tage sind kurz, und beschränkt der Sterblichen Schicksal
Vigilantibus
Vigilantibus, non dormientibus, subveniunt jura
Vigor ætatis fluit ut flos veris
Vile is the vengeance on the ashes cold, / And
envy base to bark at sleeping fame.
Vilius argentium est auro, virtutibus aurum
Vincere scis, Hannibal, victoria uti nescis
Vincit amor patriæ
Vincit omnia veritas
Vincit qui se vincit
Vinegar given is better than honey bought.
Vino dentro, senno fuora
Vino diffugiunt mordaces curæ
Violence does ever justice unjustly.
Violence of sorrow is not at the first to be
striven withal; being, like a mighty beast, sooner tamed with following than overthrown by withstanding.
Violent combativeness for particular sects, as Evangelical, Roman Catholic, High Church, Broad Church, or the like, is merely a form of party egoism, and a defiance of Christ, not a confession of Him.
Violent delights have violent ends, / And in their triumph die, like fire and powder, / Which, as they kiss, consume.
Violent fires soon burn out.
Violent mirth is the foam, and deep sadness the subsidence, of a morbid fermentation.
Violent passions are formed in solitude. In
the bustle of the world no object has time to make a deep impression.
Violenta nemo imperia continuit diu; / Moderata durant
Vir bonus est quis? / Qui consulta patrum, qui leges juraque servat
Vir sapiens forti melior
Vires acquirit eundo
Virescit vulnere virtus
Viret in æternum
Virgilium vidi tantum
Viribus unitis
Viris fortibus non opus est mœnibus
Virtue alone can procure that independence
which is the end of human wishes.
Virtue alone has majesty in death.
Virtue alone is not sufficient for the exercise of government; laws alone carry themselves into practice.
Virtue alone outbuilds the pyramids; / Her monuments shall last when Egypt's fall.
Virtue and goodness tend to make men powerful in this world; but they who aim at the power have not the virtue.
Virtue does not consist in doing what will be
presently paid; it will be paid some day; but the vital condition of it, as virtue, is that it shall be content in its own deed, and desirous rather that the pay of it, if any, should be for others.
Virtue, if it could only be beheld by our eyes, would excite a marvellous love for wisdom.
Virtue is an absolute Amen, uttered with reference to the obscure ends that Providence pursues through us.
Virtue is an angel; but she is a blind one, and must ask of Knowledge to show her the pathway that leads to her goal. Mere knowledge, on the other hand, like a Swiss mercenary, is ready to combat either in the ranks of sin or under the banners of righteousness: ready to forge cannon-balls or to print New Testaments; to navigate a corsair's vessel or a missionary ship.
Virtue is beauty; but the beauteous-evil / Are empty trunks o'erflourished by the devil.
Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful.
Virtue is choked with foul ambition.
Virtue is free-will to choose the good, not
tool-usefulness to forge at the expedient.
Virtue is its own reward, and brings with it the truest and highest pleasures; but they who cultivate it for the pleasure's sake are selfish, not religions, and will never have the pleasure, because they never can have the virtue.
Virtue is like a rich stone, best plain set.
Virtue is like precious odours, most fragrant where they are incensed or crushed.
Virtue is necessary to a republic.
Virtue is not a knowing, but a willing.
Virtue is safe only when it is inspired.
Virtue is the adherence in action to the nature of things, and the nature of things makes it prevalent. It consists in a perpetual substitution of being for seeming, and with sublime propriety God is described as saying, I AM.
Virtue is the fount whence honour springs.
Virtue is the health of the soul; it gives a flavour to the smallest leaves of life.
Virtue is the queen of labourers.
Virtue itself offends when coupled with forbidding manners.
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied, / And vice sometime's by action dignified.
Virtue, like a plant, will not grow unless its root be hidden, buried from the eye of the sun. Let the sun shine on it, nay, do but look at it privily thyself, the root withers, and no flower will glad thee.
Virtue, like a strong and hardy plant, will root when it can find an ingenuous nature and a mind not averse to labour.
Virtue, like health, is the harmony of the whole
man.
Virtue may be stern, but never cruel, never inhuman.
Virtue, not misery, is the appointed road to heaven.
Virtue often trips and falls on the sharp-edged rocks of poverty.
Virtue pardons the wicked, as the sandal-tree perfumes the axe which strikes it.
Virtue repulsed, yet knows not to repine, /
But shall with unattainted honour shine.
Virtue should be considered as a part of taste, and we should as much avoid deceit or sinister meanings in discourse as we would puns, bad language, or false grammar.
Virtue shows quite as well in rags and patches as she does in purple and fine linen.
Virtue that goes unrewarded is doubly beautiful.
Virtue that wavers is not virtue.
Virtue, though clothed in a beggar's garb,
commands respect.
Virtue, though in rags, will keep one warm.
Virtue, which breaks through all opposition / And all temptations can remove, / Most shines and most is acceptable above.
Virtue which is according to the precepts of reason, appears equally great in avoiding as in overcoming dangers.
Virtuous and vicious every man must be; / Few in the extreme, but all in a degree.
Virtus ariete fortior
Virtus est medium vitiorum, et utrinque reductum
Virtus est militis decus
Virtus est vitium fugere, et sapientia prima / Stultitia caruisse
Virtus hominem jungit Deo
Virtus in actione consistit
Virtus in arduis
Virtus laudatur et alget
Virtus mille scuta
Virtus post nummos
Virtus probata florebit
Virtus, recludens immeritis mori / Cœlum, negata tentat iter via; / Cœtusque vulgares, et udam / Spernit humum fugiente penna
Virtus repulsæ nescia sordidæ / Intaminatis fulget honoribus; / Nec sumit aut ponit secures / Arbitrio popularis auræ
Virtus requiei nescia sordidæ
Virtus semper viridis
Virtus sola nobilitat
Virtus vincit invidiam
Virtute et opera
Virtute, non astutia
Virtute, non verbis
Virtute quies
Virtutem doctrina paret, naturane donet?
Virtutem incolumem odimus, / Sublatam ex oculis quærimus invidi
Virtuti nihil obstat et armis
Virtuti non armis fido
Virtutibus obstat / Res angusta domi
Virtutis avorum præmium
Virtutis expers verbis jactans gloriam / Ignotos fallit, notis est derisui
Virtutis fortuna comes
Vis comica
Vis consili expers mole ruit sua / Vim temperatam Di quoque provehunt / In majus; idem odere vires / Omne nefas animo moventes
Vis inertiæ
Vis unita fortior
Vis viva
Visage fardé
Visible ploughmen and hammermen there have been, ever from Cain and Tubal Cain downwards; but where does your accumulated agricultural, metallurgic, and other manufacturing skill lie warehoused?
Vita brevis, ars longa
Vita dum superest, bene est
Vita hominis sine literis mors est
Vita est hominum quasi quum ludas tesseris
Vita sine proposito vaga est
Vitæ est avidus, quisquis non vult / Mundo secum pereunte mori
Vitæ philosophia dux, virtutis indagatrix
Vitæ post-scenia celant
Vitæ summa brevis spem nos vetat inchoare
longam
Vitæ via virtus
Vital truth is in its very nature self-evident; carries its witness within itself, and needs only to be understood to be at once accepted as true.
Vitam impendere vero
Vitam regit fortuna, non sapientia
Vitanda est improba Siren / Desidia
Vitavi denique culpam, / Non laudem merui
Vitia nobis sub virtutum nomine obrepunt
Vitia otii negotio discutienda sunt
Vitiis nemo sine nascitur; optimos ille / Qui minimis urgetur
Vitiosum est ubique, quod nimium est
Vitium commune omnium est, / Quod nimium ad rem in senecta attenti sumus
Viva voce
Vivat Rex
Vive la bagatelle!
Vive la nation!
Vive ut vivas
Vive, valeque
Vivent les gueux!
Vivere est cogitare
Vivere militare est
Vivere sat vincere
Vivere si recte nescis, decede peritis
Vivida vis animi
Vivimus aliena fiducia
Vivit post funera virtus
Vivite fortes, / Fortiaque adversis opponite pectora rebus
Vivitur exiguo melius: natura beatis / Omnibus esse dedit, si quis cognoverit uti
Vivitur parvo bene, cui paternum / Splendet in mensa tenui salinum; / Nec leves somnos timor aut cupido / Sordidus aufert
Vivo et regno, simul ista reliqui, / Quæ vos ad cœlum fertis rumore secundo
Vivre, c'est penser et sentir son âme
Vivre n'est pas respirer; c'est agir
Vivunt in Venerem frondes, etiam nemus omne per altum / Felix arbor amat; nutant ad mutua palmæ / Fœdera, populeo suspirat populus ictu, / Et platani platanis, alnoque assibilat alnus
Vix a te videor posse tenere manus
Vix decimus quisque est, qui ipse sese noverit
Vix ea nostra voco
Vixere fortes ante Agamemnona / Multi; sed omnes illacrymabiles / Urgentur, ignotique longa / Nocte, carent quia vate sacro
Vixi dubius, anxius morior, nescio quo vado
Voce d'uno, voce di niuno
Vogue la galère!
Voilà le soleil d'Austerlitz
Voilà une autre chose
Voilà une femme qui a des lunes
Volenti non fit injuria
Volez de vos propres ailes
Voll, toll
Voll Weisheit sind des Schicksals Fügungen
Vollkommenheit ist die Norm des Himmels; / Vollkommenes Wollen, die Norm des Menschen
Volo non valeo
Volte face
Voluntas non potest cogi
Voluptates commendat rarior usus
Vom Rechte, das mit uns geboren ist, / Von dem ist, leider! nie die Frage
Vom Sein zum Sein geht alles Leben über--/ Zum Nichtsein ist kein Schritt in der Natur
Vom sichern Port lässt sich's gemächlich
rathen
Vom Vater hab' ich die Statur, / Des Lebens ernstes Führen; / Von Mütterchen die Frohnatur, / Und Lust zu fabulieren
Von der Gewalt, die alle Wesen bindet, / Befreit der Mensch sich, der sich überwindet
Von der Menschheit--du kannst von ihr nie gross genug denken; / Wie du im Busen sie trägst, prägst du in Thaten sie aus
Vor dem Glauben / Gilt keine Stimme der Natur
Vor dem Tode erschrickst du? Du wünchest
unsterblich zu leben! / Leb' im Ganzen! Wenn du lange dahin bist, es bleibt
Vor Leiden kann nur Gott dich wahren, / Unmuth magst du dir selber sparen
Vorwärts
Vorwärts musst du / Denn rückwärts kannst du nun nicht mehr
Vos finesses sont cousues de fil blanc
Vota vita mea
Vote it as you please; there is a company of poor men that will spend all their blood before they see it settled so.
Votes should be weighed, not counted.
Vouloir c'est pouvoir
Vous bridez le cheval par la queue
Vous êtes orfèvre, Monsieur Josse!
Vous ne jouez donc pas le whist, Monsieur? Hélas! quelle triste vieillesse vous vous préparez!
Vous prenez tout ce qu'il dit au pied de la lettre
Vous voulez prendre la lune avec les dents
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
Vox audita perit, litera scripta manet
Vox clamantis in deserto
Vox et præterea nihil
Vox faucibus hæsit
Vox is the God of this universe.
Vox populi, vox Dei
Vox tantum atque ossa supersunt. / Vox manet
Voyez comme il brûle le pavé
Vulgar opulence fills the street from wall to wall of the houses, and begrudges all but the gutter to everybody whose sleeve is a little worn at the elbows.
Vulgarity consists in a deadness of the heart and body, resulting from prolonged, and especially from inherited conditions of "degeneracy," or literally "unracing;" gentlemanliness being another name for intense humanity. And vulgarity shows itself in dulness of heart, not in rage or cruelty, but in inability to feel or conceive noble character or emotion. Dulness of bodily sense and general stupidity are its material manifestations.
Vulgarity in manners defiles fine garments
more than mud.
Vulgus ex veritate pauca, ex opinione multa, æstimat
Vultus est index animi
Wachsamkeit ist die Tugend des Lasters
Waft yourselves, yearning souls, upon the stars; / Sow yourselves on the wandering winds of space; / Watch patient all your days, if your eyes take / Some dim, cold ray of knowledge. The dull world / Hath need of you--the purblind, slothful world!
Wage du zu irren und zu träumen: / Hoher
Sinn liegt oft im kind'schen Spiel
Wages are no index of well-being to the working man; without proper wages there can be no well-being; but with them also there may be none.
Wahres und Gutes wird sich versöhnen, / Wenn sich beide vermählen im Schönen
Wahrheit gegen Freund und Feind
Wahrheit immer wird, nie ist
Wahrheit wird wohl gedrückt, aber nicht
erstickt
Wait upon him whom thou art to speak to with thine eye; for there be many cunning men that have secret heads and transparent countenances.
Waiting answers sometimes as well as working.
Walk not with the world where it is walking wrong.
Walk this world with no friend in it but God and St. Edmund, and you will either fall into the ditch or learn a good many things.
Wann? wie? und wo? das ist die leidige
Frage
Want is the mother of industry.
Want makes wit.
Want maketh even servitude honourable.
Want o' wit is waur than want o' siller.
Want of care does us more damage than want
of knowledge.
Want of courage upon some occasions assumes the appearance of ignorance, and betrays us when we most want to excel.
Want of humility or self-denial is simply the want of all religion, of all moral worth.
Want of prudence is too frequently the want of virtue; nor is there on earth a more powerful advocate for vice than poverty.
Want of tenderness is want of parts, and is no less a proof of stupidity than depravity.
Want supplieth itself of what is next.
Wanton jests make fools laugh and wise men frown.
War disorganises, but it is to re-organise.
War has its sweets, Hymen its alarms.
War has no pity.
War is a game which, were their subjects
wise, kings should not play at.
War is a terrible trade; but in the cause that is righteous, / Sweet is the smell of powder.
War its thousands slays, peace its ten thousands.
War ought to be the only study of a prince.
War suspends the rules of moral obligation, and what is long suspended is in danger of being totally abrogated.
War--the trade of barbarians, and the art of
bringing the greatest physical force to bear on a single point.
War, with all its evils, is better than a peace in which there is nothing to be seen but usurpation and injustice.
Wäre der Geist nicht frei, dann wär' es ein grosser Gedanke, / Dass ein Gedankenmonarch über die Seele regiert
Warm fortunes are always sure of getting good husbands.
Warm your body by healthful exercise, not by cowering over a stove.
Warm your spirit by performing independently noble deeds, not by ignobly seeking the sympathy of your fellows, who are no better than yourself.
Warn them that are unruly, support the weak, be patient toward all men.
Wars should be undertaken in order that we may live in peace without suffering wrong.
Was, and is, and will be, are but "is."
Was der Löwe nicht kann, das kann der Fuchs
Was der Socialismus will, ist nicht Eigenthum aufheben, sondern im Gegentheile individuelles Eigenthum, auf die Arbeit gegründetes Eigenthum erst einführen
Was die Fürsten geigen, müssen die Unterthanen tanzen
Was die heulende Tiefe da unten verhehle, / Das erzählt keine lebende glückliche Seele
Was die innere Stimme spricht / Das läuschet
die hoffende Seele nicht
Was die Natur versteckt, zieht Unsinn an das Licht
Was die Sage erzählt / Mit Geschichte vermählt, / Mit Phantasie im Verein, / Das lass dir willkommen sein
Was du besitzest, kann ein Raub des Schicksals sein; / Was du besassest, bleibt für alle Zeiten dein
Was du denkest, sei wahr; und wie du denkest, so rede! / Wolle das Gute, so folgt Segen und Freude der That
Was du ererbt von deinen Vätern hast, /
Erwirb es, um es zu besitzen. / Was man nicht nützt, ist eine schwere Last; / Nur was der Augenblick erschafft, das kann er nützen
Was einmal sein muss, wird nie zu früh gethan
Was ever woman in this humour woo'd? / Was ever woman in this humour won?
Was geboren ist auf Erden / Muss zu Erd' und Asche werden
Was gelten soll, muss wirken und muss dienen
Was glänzt ist für den Augenblick geboren; /
Das Echte bleibt der Nachwelt unverloren
Was Gott thut, das ist wohlgethan
Was hab' ich mehr als meine Pflicht gethan? / Ein guter Mann wird stets das Bessre wählen
Was Hände bauten, können Hände stürzen
Was Hänschen nicht lernt, lernt Hans nimmermehr
Was hilft es mir, dass ich geniesse? Wie
Träume fliehn die wärmsten Küsse, / Und alle Freude wie ein Kuss
Was hilft laufen, wenn man nicht auf dem rechten Weg ist?
Was hilft's, wenn ihr ein Ganzes dargebracht? / Das Publikum wird es euch doch zerpflücken
Was ich besitze, mag ich gern bewahren; der Wechsel unterhält, doch nützt er kaum
Was ich besitze, seh' ich wie im weiten, / Und was verschwand, wird mir zu Wirklichkeiten
Was ich nicht loben kann, davon sprech' ich
nicht
Was im Leben uns verdriesst / Man im Bilde gern geniesst
Was in dem Herzen Anderer von uns lebt, / Ist unser wahrestes und tiefstes Selbst
Was ist deine Pflicht? Die Forderung des Tages
Was ist der Tod? Nach einem Fieber / Ein sanfter Schlaf, der uns erquickt! / Der Thor erschreckt darüber, / Der Weise ist entzückt
Was ist ein Held ohne Menschenliebe
Was ist noch schlimmer als das Uebel? Wenn man es nicht zu ertragen weiss
Was ist unser höchstes Gesetz? Unser eigener Vortheil
Was lehr' ich dich vor allen Dingen? / Könntest mich lehren von meiner Schatte zu springen!
Was man einmal ist, das muss man ganz sein
Was man Gott opfern will, muss man nicht vom Teufel einsegnen lassen
Was man in der Jugend wünscht, hat man im Alter die Fülle
Was man nicht versteht, besitzt man nicht
Was man sein will, sei man ganz
Was man zu heftig fühlt, fühlt man nicht allzulang
Was Menschen säen, werden die Götter eraten; / Gott spricht durch seine Welt, der Mensch durch seine That
Was mir ein Augenblick genommen, / Das bringt kein Frühling mir zurück
Was never evening yet / But seemed far beautifuller than its day.
Was nicht von innen keimt hervor, / Ist in
der Wurzel schwach
Was nicht zusammen kann bestehen, thut am besten sich zu lösen
Was niemals unser war, entbehrt man leicht
Was nützt, ist nur ein Theil des Bedeutenden
Was soll der fürchten, der den Tod nicht fürchtet?
Was there ever, since the beginning of the
world, a universal vote given in favour of the worthiest man or thing?
Was there, is there, or will there be a great intellect ever heard tell of without being first a true and great heart to begin with? Never.... Think it not, suspect it not. Worse blasphemy I could not readily utter.
Was thy life given to thee / For making pretty sentences, and play / Of dainty humour for the mirthful heart / To be more merry, or to serve thy kind, / Redressing wrong?
Was uns alle bändigt, das Gemeine
Was vergangen, kehrt nicht wieder; Aber ging es leuchtend nieder, / Leuchtet's lange noch zurück!
Was vernünftig ist, das ist wirklich; und
was wirklich ist, das ist vernünftig
Was verschmerze nicht der Mensch?
Was wir als Schönheit hier empfunden, / Wird einst als Wahrheit uns entgegengehn
Waste not time by trampling upon thistles because they have yielded us no figs. Here are books, and we have brains to read them; here is a whole Earth and a whole Heaven, and we have eyes to look on them.
Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation.
Watch thy tongue; out of it are the issues of
life.
Watched pot never boils.
Watchman, what of the night?
Water, air, and cleanliness are the chief articles in my pharmacopœia.
Water cannot rise above the level from which it springs; no more can moral theories.
Water, water everywhere, / And all the boards
did shrink, / Water, water everywhere, / Nor any drop to drink.
Waters that are deep do not babble as they flow.
We acquire the strength we have overcome. Without war, no soldier; without enemies, no hero. The sun were insipid if the universe were not opaque.
We all bear the misfortunes of other people with a heroic constancy.
We all complain of the shortness of time, and yet have much more than we know what to do with. Our lives are spent either in doing nothing at all, or in doing nothing to the purpose, or in doing nothing that we ought to do; we are always complaining our days are few, and acting as though there would be no end of them.
We all know a hundred whose coats are well
made, and a score who have excellent manners; but of gentlemen how many? Let us take a little scrap of paper and each make out his list.
We all know that the secret of breakdown and wreck is seldom so much an insufficient knowledge of the route, as imperfect discipline of the will.
We all live upon the hope of pleasing somebody; and the pleasure of pleasing ought to be greatest, and at last always will be greatest, when our endeavours are exerted in consequence of our duty.
We always believe that God is like ourselves: the indulgent affirm him indulgent; the stern, terrible.
We always live prospectively, never retrospectively, and there is no abiding moment.
We always take credit for the good, and attribute
the bad to fortune.
We are able easily to dispense with greater perfection.

We are all, at times, unconscious prophets.
We are all best affected to them who are of the same opinion as ourselves.
We are all born for love. It is the principle of existence, and its only end.
We are all collective beings, let us place ourselves as we may; for how little have we, and are we, that we can strictly call our own property?
We are all frail; but esteem none more frail than thyself.
We are all richer for the measurement of a
degree of latitude on the earth's surface.
We are all visionaries, and what we see is our soul in things.
We are always complaining our days are few, and acting as though there would be no end of them.
We are always looking into the future, but we see only the past.
We are ancients of the earth / And in the morning of the times.
We are apt to mistake our vocation by looking
out of the way for occasions to exercise great and rare virtues, and by stepping over the ordinary ones that lie directly in the road before us.
We are apt to pick quarrels with the world for every little foolery.
We are as liable to be corrupted by books as by companions.
We are as much informed of a writer's genius by what he selects as by what he originates.
We are as turkeys driven, with a stick and red clout, to market.
We are awkward for want of thought. The
inspiration is scanty, and does not arrive at the extremities.
We are born with faculties and powers capable almost of anything, such, at least, as might carry us further than can easily be imagined; but it is only the exercise of those powers that gives us ability and skill in anything, and leads us towards perfection.
We are bound to be honest, but not to be rich.
We are but of yesterday, and know nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow.
We are children for the second time at twenty-one, and again when we are grey and put all our burden on the Lord.
We are come too late, by several thousand
years, to say anything new in morality. The finest and most beautiful thoughts concerning manners have been carried away before our times, and nothing is left for us but to glean after the ancients and the more ingenious of the moderns.
We are content with personating happiness--to feel it is an art beyond us.
We are contented because we are happy, and not happy because we are contented.
We are created to seek truth; to possess it is the prerogative of a higher power.
"We are creatures that look before and after," the more surprising that we do not look round a little, and see what is passing under our eyes.
We are great philosophers to each other, but
not to ourselves.
We are here for the express purpose of stamping on things perishable an imperishable worth.
We are in a series of which we do not know the extremes, and believe that it has none.
We are in great danger; / The greater therefore should our courage be.
We are inclined to believe those whom we do not know, because they have never deceived us.
We are incompetent to solve the times....
We can only obey our own polarity.
We are instinctively more inclined to hope than to fear; just as our eyes turn of themselves towards light rather than darkness.
We are less convinced by what we hear than by what we see.
We are members of one great body. Nature planted in us a mutual love, and fitted us for a social life. We must consider that we were born for the good of the whole.
"We are men, my liege."--/ Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men.
We are near awakening when we dream that
we dream.
We are ne'er like angels till our passion dies.
We are never farther from what we wish than when we fancy that we have what we wished for.
We are never made so ridiculous by the qualities we have as by those we affect to have.
We are never more discontented with others than when we are discontented with ourselves.
We are never more like God than when we
are doing good.
We are never present with, but always beyond ourselves. Fear, desire, and hope are still pushing us on towards the future.
We are never properly ourselves till another thinks entirely as we do.
We are never so happy or so unhappy as we imagine.
We are not called upon to judge ourselves. / With circumspection to pursue his path, / Is the immediate duty of a man.
We are not ignorant of his devices.
We are not indebted to the reason of man for any of the great achievements which are the landmarks of human action and human progress.
We are not, indeed, satisfied with our own opinions, whatever we may pretend, till they are ratified and confirmed by suffrage of the rest of mankind. We dispute and wrangle for ever; we endeavour to get men to come to us when we do not go to them.
We are not sent into this world to do anything into which we cannot put our hearts. We have certain work to do for our bread, and that is to be done strenuously; other work to do for our delight, and that is to be done heartily; neither is to be done by halves or shifts, but with a will; and what is not worth this effort is not to be done at all.
We are not strong by our power to penetrate, but by our relatedness.
We are not to be astonished that the wise walk more slowly in their road to virtue than fools in their passage to vice; since passion drags us along, while wisdom only points out the way.
We are not to lead events, but to follow them.
We are not to quarrel with the water for
inundations and shipwrecks.
We are not troubled by the evanescence of time, if the eternal is every moment present.
We are often governed by people not only weaker than ourselves, but even by those whom we think so.
We are often prophets to others only because we are our own historians.
We are only so far worthy of esteem as we know how to appreciate.
We are only vulnerable and ridiculous through
our pretensions.
We are ourselves / Our heaven and hell, the joy, the penalty, / The yearning, the fruition.
We are pent, / Who sing to-day, by all the garnered wealth / Of ages of past song.
We are reformers in spring and summer; in autumn and winter we stand by the old; reformers in the morning, conservers at night.
We are rid of the Wicked One, but the wicked are still with us.
We are ruined not by what we really want,
but by what we think we do.
We are seldom sure that we sincerely meant what we omitted to do.
We are slaves, / The greatest as the meanest--nothing rests / Upon our will.... And when we think we lead, we are most led.
We are such stuff / As dreams are made on; and our little life / Is rounded with a sleep.
We are sure to be losers when we quarrel with ourselves; it is a civil war, and in all such contentions, triumphs are defeats.
We are sure to judge wrong if we do not feel
aright.
We are taxed twice as much by our idleness, three times as much by our pride, and four times as much by our folly; and from these taxes the Commissioners cannot ease or deliver us by allowing an abatement.
We are the children of our own deeds.
We are the miracle of miracles--the great inscrutable mystery of God. We cannot understand it, we know not how to speak of it; but we may feel and know, if we like, that it is verily so.
We are the slaves of objects round us, and appear little or important according as these contract or give us room to expand.
We are to earn the joys of a higher existence,
not by scorning, but by using, all the gifts of God in this.
We are too good for pure instinct.
We are very fond of some families because they can be traced beyond the Conquest, whereas indeed the farther back the worse, as being the nearer allied to a race of robbers and thieves.
We are wiser than we know.
We ask advice, but we mean approbation.
We barter life for pottage.
We boast our light; but if we look not wisely on the sun itself, it smites us into darkness.
We build statues of snow, and weep to see them melt.
We by Fancy may assuage / The festering sore by Fancy made.
We can conceive or desire nothing more exquisite or perfect than what is round us every hour.
We can do more good by being good than in
any other way.
We can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth.
We can finish nothing in this life, but we can make a beginning, and bequeath a noble example.
We can hardly be confident of the state of our own minds, but as it stands attested by some external action.
We can have no dependence upon morality without religion; so, on the other hand, there is nothing better to be expected from religion without morality.
We can live without our friends, but not without
our neighbours.
We can more easily avenge an injury than requite a kindness; on this account, because there is less difficulty in getting the better of the wicked than in making one's self equal with the good.
We can never soon enough convince ourselves how easily we can be dispensed with in the world.
We can offer up much in the large, but to make sacrifices in little things is what we are seldom equal to.
We can only know a little, and the question is merely whether or not we know this well.
We can only possess wealth according to our
capacity.
We can receive anything from love, for that is a way of receiving it from ourselves; but not from any one who assumes to bestow.
We can sometimes love what we do not understand, but it is impossible completely to understand what we do not love.
We can take up no scheme, however wild and impracticable, but it will strike off some flower or fruit from the tree of knowledge.
We cannot abolish fate, but we can in a measure utilise it. The projectile force of the bullet does not annul or suspend gravity; it uses it.
We cannot all be masters, nor all masters / Cannot be truly follow'd.
We cannot all serve our country in the same way, but each may do his best, according as God has endowed him.
We cannot approach beauty. Its nature is like opaline dove's-neck lustres, hovering and evanescent. Herein it resembles the most excellent things, which have all this rainbow character, defying all attempts at appropriation and use.
We cannot be just if we are not humane.
We cannot be kind to each other here for an hour; / We whisper, and hint, and chuckle, and grin at a brother's shame; / However we brave it out, we men are a little breed.
We cannot but speak the things we have seen and heard.
We cannot conquer fate and necessity, yet we can yield to them in such a manner as to be greater than if we could.
We cannot fashion our children after our fancy. We must have them and love them as God has given them to us.
We cannot fight for love, as men may do; /
We should be wooed, and were not made to woo.
We cannot make our exodus from Houndsditch
till we have got our own
(_i.e._, the now dead religion of the past) with us.
We cannot overstate our debt to the past, but the moment has the supreme claim.
We cannot part with our friends. We cannot let our angels go. We do not see that they only go out that archangels may come in. We are idolaters of the old. We do not believe in the richness of the soul, in its proper eternity and omnipresence.
We cannot pass our guardian angel's bound, / Resign'd or sullen, he will hear our sighs.
We cannot speak a loyal word and be meanly
silent; we cannot kill and not kill at the same moment; but a moment is room enough for the loyal and mean desire, for the outflash of a murderous thought, and the sharp backward stroke of repentance.
We cannot think too highly of our nature, nor too humbly of ourselves.
We conceive, I think, more nobly of the weak presence of Paul than of the fair and ruddy countenance of David.
We consecrate a great deal of nonsense, because it was allowed by great men.
We could not endure solitude, were it not for the powerful companionship of hope, or of some unseen one.
We crave a world unreal as the shell-heard
sea.
We cultivate literature on a little oatmeal.
We darken the cages of birds when we would teach them to sing.
We deceive and flatter no one by such delicate artifices as we do ourselves.
We deem those happy who, from their experience of life, have learned to bear its ills without descanting on the burden.
We derive from nature no fault that may not
become a virtue, no virtue that may not degenerate into a fault. Faults of the latter kind are most difficult to cure.
We do everything by custom, even believe by it; our very axioms, let us boast of our Freethinking as we may, are oftenest simply such beliefs as we have never heard questioned.
We do not believe immortality because we have proved it, but we for ever try to prove it because we believe it.
We do not commonly find men of superior sense amongst those of the highest fortune.
We do not correct the man we hang; we correct others by him.
We do not count a man's years until he has
nothing else to count.
We do not determine what we will think.... We have little control over our thoughts.
We do not die wholly at our deaths; we have mouldered away gradually long before.
We do not judge men by what they are in themselves, but by what they are relatively to us.
We do not know what is really good or bad fortune.
We do not teach one another the lessons of
honesty and sincerity that the brutes do, or of steadiness and solitude that the rocks do. The fault is commonly mutual, for we do not habitually demand any more of each other.
We don't always care most for those flat-pattern flowers that press best in the herbarium.
We draw the foam from the great river of humanity with our quills, and imagine to ourselves that we have caught floating islands at least.
We eagerly lay hold of a law that serves as a weapon to our passion.
We easily dispense with what was never our own.
We enjoy ourselves only in our work, our
doing; and our best doing is our best enjoyment.
We estimate
We exaggerate misfortune and happiness alike. We are never either so wretched or so happy as we say we are.
We expect a bright to-morrow; / All will be well. / Faith can sing through days of sorrow, / All, all is well.
We expect everything, and are prepared for nothing.
We expect in letters to discover somewhat
of a person's real character. It is childish indeed to expect that we are to find the whole heart of the author unveiled.... Still as letters from one friend to another make the nearest approaches to conversation, we may expect to see more of a character displayed in these than in other productions which are studied for public view.
We expect old men to be conservative, but when a nation's young men are so, its funeral-bell is already rung.
We fail? / But screw your courage to the sticking-place, / And we'll not fail.
We fancy we suffer from ingratitude, while in reality we suffer from self-love.
(We) feel that life is large, and the world small, / So wait till life have passed from out the world.
We find God twice--once within, once without
us; within us as an eye, without us as a light.
We forfeit three-fourths of ourselves in order to be like other people.
We furnish our minds as we furnish our houses--with the fancies of others, and according to the mode and age of our country; we pick up our ideas and notions in common conversation as in schools.
We gain nothing by being with such as ourselves. We encourage one another in mediocrity. I am always longing to be with men more excellent than myself.
We gain the strength of the temptation we resist.
We gape, we grasp, we gripe, add store to
store; / Enough requires too much; too much craves more.
We gild our medicines with sweets; why not clothe truth and morals in pleasant garments as well?
We give advice, but we cannot give the wisdom to profit by it.
We give advice by the bucket, but take it by the grain.
We go by the major vote, and if the majority are insane, the sane must go to the hospital. As Satan said, "Evil, be thou my good," so they say, "Darkness, be thou my light."
We hang little thieves, and take off our hats
to great ones.
We happiness pursue; we fly from pain; / Yet the pursuit, and yet the flight is vain.
We hate delay, yet it makes us wise.
We hate some persons because we do not know them, and we will not know them because we hate them.
We have a great deal more kindness than is ever spoken. Maugre all the selfishness that chills like east winds the world, the whole human family is bathed with an element of love like a fine ether.
We have all a cure of souls, and every man is
a priest.
We have all a speck of the motley.
We have all of us one human heart.
We have all of us our ferries (to cross over) in this world, and must know the river and its ways, or get drowned some day.
We have all strength enough to endure the troubles of others.
We have always considered taxes to be the
sinews of the state.
We have, and this is an interesting fact, a plant which may serve as a symbol of the most advanced age, since, having passed the period of flowers and fruit, it still thrives cheerfully without further foundation.
We have but to toil awhile, endure awhile, believe always, and never turn back.
We have done deeds of charity, / Made peace of enmity, fair love of hate.
We have just enough religion to make us hate, but not enough to make us love, one another.
We have less charity for those who believe the
half of our creed than for those who deny the whole of it.
We have little control over our thoughts. We are the prisoners of our ideas.
We have met the enemy, and they are ours.
We have more indolence in the mind than in the body.
We have more mathematics than ever, but less mathesis. Archimedes and Plato could not have read the "Méchanique Céleste;" but neither would the whole French Institute see aught in that saying, "God geometrises," but sentimental rhodomontade.
We have no more / The world to choose from,
who, where'er we turn, / Tread through old thoughts and fair. Yet must we sing--/ We have no choice.
We have not only multiplied diseases, but we have made them more fatal.
We have not read an author till we have seen his object, whatever it may be, as he saw it.
We have not the innocence of Eden; but by God's help and Christ's example, we may have the victory of Gethsemane.
We have not the love of greatness, but the love of the love of greatness.
We have not wings, we cannot soar; / But
we have feet to scale and climb / By slow degrees, by more and more, / The cloudy summits of our time.
We have nothing to do with what is happening in space (or possibly may happen in time); we have only to attend to what is happening here--and now.
We have raised Pain and Sorrow into heaven, and in our temples, on our altars. Grief stands symbol of our faith, and it shall last as long as man is mortal and unhappy.
We have scotch'd the snake, but not killed it.
We have such exorbitant eyes, that, on seeing the smallest arc, we complete the curve, and when the curtain is lifted from the diagram which it served to veil, we are vexed to find that no more was drawn than just that fragment of an arc which we first beheld.
We hear constantly of what Nature is doing,
but we rarely hear of what man is thinking. We want ideas, and we get more facts.
We hear the rain fall, but not the snow. Bitter grief is loud, calm grief is silent.
We, ignorant of ourselves, / Beg often our own harms, which the wise powers / Deny us for our good; so find we profit / By losing of our prayers.
We in turn / Shall one day be Time's ancients, and inspire / The wiser, higher race, which yet shall sing; / Because to sing is human, and high thought / Grows rhythmic ere its close.
We inherit, not life only, but all the garniture and form of life; and work, and speak, and even think and feel, as our fathers, and primeval grandfathers, from the beginning, have given it us.
We injure mysteries, which are matters of faith, by any attempt at explanation in order to make them matters of reason. Could they be explained, they would cease to be mysteries; and it has been well said that a thing is not necessarily against reason because it happens to be above it.
We keep but what we give, / And only daily
dying may we live.
We know accurately only when we know little; with knowledge doubt increases.
We know better than we do.
We know God easily, provided we do not constrain ourselves to define him.
We know not oftentimes what we are able to do, but temptations shows us what we are.
We know truth when we see it, let sceptic
and scoffer say what they choose.
We know what we are, but we know not what we may be.
We learn nothing from mere hearing, and he who does not take an active part in certain subjects knows them but half and superficially.
We learn to know a thing best in the place where it is native.
We learn to know nothing but what we love; and the deeper we mean to penetrate into any matter with insight, the stronger and more vital must our love and passion be.
We learn wisdom from failure much more than
from success; we often discover what will do by finding out what will not do; and probably he who never made a mistake never made a discovery. Horne Tooke used to say of his studies in intellectual philosophy, that he had become all the better acquainted with the country through having had the good luck sometimes to lose his way.
We lie down and rise up with the skeleton allotted to us for our mortal companion--the phantom of ourselves.
We like only such actions as have long already had the praise of men, and do not perceive that anything man can do may be divinely done.
We like slipping, but not falling; our real desire is to be tempted enough.
We like to see through others, but not that others should see through us.
We live by admiration, hope, and love; / And
even as these are well and wisely fix'd, / In dignity of being we ascend.
We live by our imaginations, by our admirations, by our sentiments.
We live in a real, and a solid, and a truthful world. In such a world only truth, in the long run, can hope to prosper.
We live in a world which is full of misery and ignorance, and the plain duty of each and all of us is to try to make the little corner he can influence somewhat less miserable and somewhat less ignorant than it was before he entered it. To do this effectually, it is necessary to be fully possessed of only two beliefs: the first, that the order of nature is ascertainable by our faculties to an extent which is practically unlimited; the second, that our volition counts for something as a condition of the course of events.
We live in deeds, not years; in thoughts, not breaths; / In feelings, not in figures on a dial.
We live in the age of systems.
We loathe what none are left to share; / Even bless 'twere woe alone to bear.
We long in vain to undo what has been done.
We long to use what lies beyond our scope, / Yet cannot use even what within it lies.
We look before and after, / And pine for what is not; / E'en our sincerest laughter / With some pain is fraught; / Our sweetest songs are those which tell of saddest thought.
We love a girl for very different things than
understanding. We love her for her beauty, her youth, her mirth, her confidingness, her character, with its faults, caprices, and God knows what other inexpressible charms; but we do not love her for her understanding. Her mind we esteem (if it is brilliant), and it may greatly elevate her in our opinion; nay, more, it may enchain us when we already love. But her understanding is not that which awakens and inflames our passions.
We love in others what we lack ourselves, / And would be everything but what we are.
We love justice greatly, and just men but little.
We love peace, as we abhor pusillanimity; but not peace at any price. There is a peace more destructive of the manhood of living man than war is destructive of his material body. Chains are worse than bayonets.
We love those who admire us, but not those whom we admire.
We love to see wisdom in unpretending forms,
to recognise her royal features under a week-day vesture.
We make trifles of terrors, ensconcing ourselves into seeming knowledge, when we should submit ourselves to an unknown fear.
We make way for the man who boldly pushes past us.
We manufacture everything there
except men; we blanch cotton, and strengthen steel, and refine sugar, and shape pottery; but to brighten, to strengthen, to refine, or to form a single living spirit, never enters into our estimate of advantages.
We may acquire liberty, but it is never recovered if it is once lost.
We may all agree in lamenting that there are so many houses where you will not find a good atlas, a good dictionary, or a good cyclopædia of reference. What is still more lamentable, in a good many more houses where these books are, is that they are never referred to or opened.
We may almost say that a new life begins when a man once sees with his own eyes all that before he has but partially read or heard of.
We may be as good as we please, if we please to be good.
We may be pretty certain that persons whom
all the world treats ill deserve entirely the treatment they get.
We may build more splendid habitations, / Fill our rooms with paintings and with sculptures,/ But we cannot / Buy with gold the old associations!
We may daily discover crowds acquire sufficient wealth to buy gentility, but very few that possess the virtues which ennoble human nature, and (in the best sense of the word) constitute a gentleman.
We may despise the world, but we cannot do without it.
We may fall in with a thousand learned men before we fall in with one wise.
We may give more offence by our silence than
even by impertinence.
We may grasp virtue so hard as to convert it into a vice.
We may have a law, or we may have no law, but we cannot have half a law.
We may have once been slugs, and may one day be angels, but we are men now; and we must, as men, do our work honourably and thoroughly.
We may lay in a stock of pleasures, as we would lay in a stock of wine; but if we defer the tasting of them too long, we shall find that both are soured by age.
We may, like the ships, by tempests be toss'd /
On perilous deeps, but cannot be lost.
We may not be able to parry evil thoughts, but we may surely guard against their taking root in us and bringing forth evil deeds.
We may outrun / By violent swiftness that which we run at, / And lose by overrunning.
We may say of angling as Dr. Boteler said of strawberries, "Doubtless God could have made a better berry, but doubtless God never did;" and so, if I might be judge, God never did make a more calm, quiet, innocent recreation than angling.
We may seek God by our intellect
but we can find him only with the heart.
We may take Fancy for a companion, but must
follow Reason as our guide.
We mount to heaven mostly on the ruins of our cherished schemes, finding our failures were successes.
We move too much in platoons; we march by sections; we do not live in our vital individuality enough; we are slaves to fashion, in mind and in heart, if not to our passions and appetites.
We must accept ourselves as we are.
We must accept the post to which Heaven appoints us, and do the duty to which Heaven calls us, and think it no shame, but an honour, to hold any office, however lowly, under heaven's King.
We must all receive and learn both from those
who were before us and from those who are with us. Even the greatest genius would not go far if he tried to owe everything to his own internal self.
We must all toil--or steal; no faithful workman finds his life a pastime.
We must avoid fastidiousness; neatness, when it is moderate, is a virtue; but when it is carried to an extreme, it narrows the mind.
We must be as courteous to a man as we are to a picture, which we are willing to give the advantage of a good light.
We must be free or die who speak the tongue / That Shakespeare spake, the faith and morals hold / Which Milton held.
We must be our own before we can be
another's.
We must bear what Heaven sends us; no noble heart will bear injustice.
We must carry the beautiful with us, or we find it not.
We must first cross a valley before we regain a favourable and cheerful height; meanwhile, let us see how we can stroll through it with our friends pleasantly and profitably.
We must first pray, and then labour; first implore the blessing of God, and use those means which he puts into our hands.
We must have the real thing before we can
have a science of the thing.
We must hold by what is definite, and not split up our strength in many directions.
We must, if we would husband life and not waste it, bravely resolve to dispense with the dispensable, to content ourselves with the minimum of want, to stake our reputation, if such be dear to us, upon intrinsic worth, and show once again, if we can, by our mere life and labour, what are the "roots of honour" and the "veins of wealth."
We must judge of a form of government by its general tendency, not by happy accidents.
We must labour unceasingly to render our piety reasonable, and our reason pious.
We must needs die, and are as water spilt on
the ground which cannot be gathered up again.
We must not arrogate to ourselves a spirit of forgiveness, until we have been touched to the quick where we are sensitive and borne it meekly.
We must not contradict, but instruct, him that contradicts us.
We must not judge of despots by the temporary successes which the possession of power enabled them to achieve, but by the state in which they leave their country at their death or at their fall.
We must not make a scarecrow of the law.
We must not only strike the iron while it is hot, but strike it till it is made hot.
We must not regard what the many say of us; but what he, the one man who has understanding of just and unjust, will say, and what the truth will say.
We must not stand upon trifles.
We must not stint / Our necessary actions, in
the fear / To cope malicious censurers; which ever, / As ravenous fishes, do a vessel follow / That is new trimmed, but benefit no further / Than vainly longing.
We must not suppose ourselves always to have conquered a temptation when we have fled from it.
We must not take the faults of our youth with us into our old age, for old age brings with it its own defects.
We must put up with our contemporaries, since we can neither live with our ancestors nor posterity.
We must sometimes cease to adhere to our own opinion for the sake of peace.
We must strive to make of humanity one
single family.
We must take the current when it serves, / Or lose our ventures.
We must take the world as we find it.
We need change of objects.
We
leaving Heaven to decide whether they are to rise in the world, decide for themselves that they will be happy in it, and have resolved to seek--not greater wealth, but simpler pleasure; not higher fortune, but deeper felicity; making the first of possessions self-possession, and honouring themselves in the harmless pride and calm pursuits of peace.
We need greater virtues to sustain good than
evil fortune.
We need not die while we are living.
We needs must love the highest when we see it, / Not Lancelot, nor another.
We never can know the truth of sin; for its nature is to deceive alike on the one side the sinner and on the other the judge.
We never can say why we love, but only that we love. The heart is ready enough at feigning excuses for all that it does or imagines of wrong; but ask it to give a reason for any of its beautiful and divine motions, and it can only look upward and be dumb.
We never desire ardently what we desire
rationally.
We never learn what people are by their coming to us; we must go to them if we wish to know what they are made of, and see how they conduct or misconduct their surroundings.
We never live, but we hope to live; and as we are always arranging for being happy, it cannot be but that we never are so.
We never love truly but once. It is the first time. Succeeding passions are less involuntary.
We never reflect on the man we love without exulting in our choice; while he who has bound us to him by benefits alone rises to our idea as a person to whom we have, in some measure, forfeited our freedom.
We never see anything isolated in Nature,
but everything in connection with something else which is before it, beside it, under it, and over it.
We never sufficiently consider that a language is properly only symbolical, only figurative, and expresses objects never immediately, but only in reflection; yet how difficult it is not to put the sign in place of the thing, always to keep the thing as it is
We never sufficiently consider that a language is properly only symbolical, only figurative, and expresses objects never immediately, but only in reflection; yet how difficult it is not to put the sign in place of the thing, always to keep the thing as it is 
We never sufficiently consider that a language is properly only symbolical, only figurative, and expresses objects never immediately, but only in reflection; yet how difficult it is not to put the sign in place of the thing, always to keep the thing as it is  the expression
We often quarrel with the unfortunate to get rid of pitying them.
We ought certainly to despise malice if we cannot oppose it.
We ought not, in general, to take the opinions of others upon trust, but to reason and judge for ourselves.
We ought not to isolate ourselves, for we
cannot remain in a state of isolation. Social intercourse makes us the more able to bear with ourselves and with others.
We ought not to judge men by their absolute excellence, but by the distance which they have travelled from the point at which they started.
We ought not to quit our post without the permission of Him who commands; the post of man is life.
We ought not to seek too high joys. We may be bright without transfiguration.
We ought not to teach children the sciences, but to give them a taste for them.
We ought to attempt no more than what is in
the compass of our genius and according to our vein.
We ought to be ashamed of our pride, but never proud of our shame.
We ought to obey God rather than man.
We ought to regard our servants as friends in a lower state.
We our betters see bearing our woes, / We scarcely think our miseries our foes.
We owe it to our ancestors to preserve entire
those rights which they have delivered to our care; we owe it to our posterity not to suffer their dearest inheritance to be destroyed.
We owe to man higher succours than food and fire. We owe to man, man.
We own whom we love. The universe is God's because He loves.
We pain ourselves to please nobody.
We pardon as long as we love.
We part with true joy almost more lightly
than with a beautiful dream.
We pass our life in deliberation, and we die upon it.
We pity in others only those evils which we have ourselves experienced.
We play the fools with the time, and the spirits of the wise sit in the clouds and mock us.
We poets in our youth begin in gladness, / But thereof come in the end despondency and madness.
We promise according to our hopes, and perform according to our fears.
We properly learn from those books only which are above our criticism, which we cannot judge.
We read far too many things, thus losing time
and gaining nothing. We should only read what we admire.
We readily believe what we wish to be true.
We reap what we sow, but Nature has love over and above that justice, and gives us shadow and blossom and fruit that spring from no planting of ours.
We receive but little advantage from repeated protestations of gratitude, but they cost them very much from whom we exact them in return.
We reform others unconsciously when we walk uprightly.
We retain from our studies only that which
we practically apply.
We sacrifice to dress till household joys and comforts cease. Dress drains our cellar dry and keeps our larder lean.
We see but the outside of the rich man's happiness; few consider him to be like the silkworm, that, when she seems to play, is at the very same time spinning her own bowels and consuming herself.
We see farthest into the future--and that is not far--when we most carefully consider the facts of the present.
We see so darkly into futurity, we never know when we have real cause to rejoice or lament. The worst appearances have often happy consequences, as the best lead many times into the greatest misfortunes.
We see the blossoms wither and the leaves
fall, but we likewise see fruits ripen and new buds shoot forth.
We seek but half the causes of our deeds, / Seeking them only in the outer life, / And heedless of the encircling spirit-world, / Which, though unseen, is felt, and sows in us / All germs of pure and world-wide purposes.
We seldom give our love to what is worthiest in its object.
We seldom speak of the virtue we have, but much more frequently of that which we have not.
"We shall fight in the shade."
We shall find no fiend in hell can match the
fury of a disappointed woman,--scorned, slighted, dismissed without a parting pang.
We should always keep a corner of our heads open and free, that we may make room for the opinions of our friends.
We should be slower to think that the man at his worst is the real man, and certain that the better we are ourselves the less likely is he to be at his worst in our company.
We should be sparing in our intimacies; because it so very often happens that the more perfectly men are understood, the less they are esteemed.
We should come home from adventures, and perils, and discoveries every day with new experience and character.
We should count time by heart-throbs. / He
most lives / Who thinks most, feels the noblest, / Acts the best.
We should despise the wretch who has never once thought what it is he is doing
We should distinguish between laughter inspired by joy, and that which arises from mockery.
We should eat to live, and not live to eat.
We should feel sorrow, but not sink under its oppression.
We should forgive freely, but forget rarely.
I will not be revenged, and this I owe to my enemy; but I will remember, and this I owe to myself.
We should guard against a talent which we cannot hope to practise in perfection. Improve it as we may, we shall always in the end, when the merit of the master has become apparent to us, painfully lament the loss of time and strength devoted to such botching.
We should have all our communications with men as in the presence of God; and with God, as in the presence of men.
We should hold the immutable mean that lies between insensibility and anguish; our attempts should be, not to extinguish nature, but to repress it; not to stand unmoved at distress, but endeavour to turn every disaster to our own advantage.
We should labour to treat with ease of things that are difficult; with familiarity, of things that are novel; and with perspicuity, of things that are profound.
We should live each day as if it were the full
term of our life.
We should manage our fortune like our constitution; enjoy it when good, have patience when bad, and never apply violent remedies but in cases of necessity.
We should never risk pleasantry except with well-bred people, and people with brains.
We should never so entirely avoid danger as to appear irresolute and cowardly; but, at the same time, we should avoid unnecessarily exposing ourselves to danger, than which nothing can be more foolish.
We should not be too hasty in bestowing either our praise or censure on mankind, since we shall often find such a mixture of good and evil in the same character, that it may require a very accurate judgment and a very elaborate inquiry to determine on which side the balance turns.
We should not spur a willing horse.
We should not trust the heart too much. The heart speaks to us very gladly, as our mouth expresses itself. If the mouth were as much inclined to speak the feelings of the heart, it would have been the fashion long ago to put a padlock on the mouth.
We should often feel ashamed of our most brilliant actions were the world to see the motives from which they sprung.
We should only utter higher maxims so far as they can benefit the world. The rest we should keep within ourselves, and they will diffuse over our actions a lustre like the mild radiance of a hidden sun.
We should round every day of stirring action with an evening of thought. We learn nothing of our experience except we muse upon it.
We should seem ignorant that we oblige, and leave the mind at full liberty to give or refuse its affections; for constraint may indeed leave the receiver still grateful but it will certainly produce disgust.
We should take a prudent care for the future,
but so as to enjoy the present. It is no part of wisdom to be miserable to-day, because we may happen to be so to-morrow.
We should, to the last moment of our lives, continue a settled intercourse with all the true examples of grandeur.
We shut our eyes, and, like people in the dark, we fall foul upon the very thing we search for, without finding it.
We sink to rise.
We smile at the satire expended upon the follies of others, but we forget to weep at our own.
We sometimes meet an original gentleman,
who, if manners had not existed, would have invented them.
We sometimes see a change of expression in our companion, and say, His father or his mother comes to the windows of his eyes, and sometimes a remote relative. In different hours, a man represents each of several of his ancestors, as if there were seven or eight of us rolled up in each man's skin--seven or eight ancestors at least--and they constitute the variety of notes for that new piece of music which his life is.
We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen.
We still are fain, with wrath and strife, / To seek for gain, to shrink from loss, / Content to scratch our shallow cross / On the rough surface of old life.
We swallow at one gulp a lie which flatters us, but only drop by drop a truth which is bitter to us.
We take a great deal for granted in this world,
and expect that everything, as a matter of course, ought to fit into our humours, wishes, and wants; it is often only when danger threatens that we awake to the discovery that the guiding reins are held by one whom we had well-nigh forgotten in our careless ease.
We take a pleasure in being severe upon others, but cannot endure to hear of our own faults.
We take greater pains to persuade others that we are happy than in endeavouring to think so ourselves.
We take no note of time but from its loss.
We talk little if we do not talk about ourselves.
We talk on principle, but we act on interest.
We tell our triumphs to the crowd, but our own hearts are the sole confidants of our sorrows.
We tell the ladies that good wives make good husbands; I believe it is a more certain position that good brothers make good sisters.
We that acquaint ourselves with every zone, / And pass the tropics, and behold each pole; / When we come home, are to ourselves unknown, / And unacquainted still with our own soul.
We think our civilisation near its meridian; but we are yet only at the cock-crowing and the morning star.
We tolerate everybody, because we doubt
everything; or else we tolerate nobody, because we believe something.
We trample grass, and prize the flowers of May; / Yet grass is green when flowers do fade away.
We treat God with irreverence by banishing him from our thoughts, not by referring to his will on slight occasions.
We triumph without glory when we conquer without danger.
We unconsciously imitate what pleases us, and insensibly approximate to the characters we most admire. In this way, a generous habit of thought and of action carries with it an incalculable influence.
We underpin our houses with granite; what
of our habits and our lives?
We use up in the passions the stuff that was given us for happiness.
We usually lose the to-day, because there has been a yesterday, and to-morrow is coming.
We very often have to do things during our lives of which we do not understand the reasons, but the more clearly we understand the work we have to do, depend upon it, the better the work will be done.
We wander there, we wander here, / We eye the rose upon the brier, / Unmindful that the thorn is near, / Amang the leaves.
We want but two or three friends, but these
we cannot do without, and they serve us in every thought we think.
We want downright facts at present more than anything else.
We want foolishly to think the creed a man professes a more significant fact than the man he is.
We want one man to be always thinking, and another to be always working, and we call the one a gentleman, and the other an operative; whereas the workman ought often to be thinking, and the thinker often to be working, and both should be gentlemen in the best sense.
We waste our best years in distilling the sweetest flowers of life into potions which, after all, do not immortalise, but only intoxicate.
We wear a face of joy because / We have been
glad of yore.
We, who name ourselves its
we, / Half dust, half deity, alike unfit / To sink or soar.
We will have others severely corrected, and will not be corrected ourselves.
We will not estimate the sun by the quantity of gaslight it saves us.
We will not from the helm, to sit and weep; / But keep our course, though the rough wind say no.
We will obey the voice of the Lord our God, that it may be well with us.
We wish to be happier than other people; and
this is almost always difficult, for we believe others to be happier than they are.
We would commend a faith that even seems audacious, like that of the sturdy Covenanter Robert Bruce, who requested, as he was dying, that his finger might be placed on one of God's strong promises, as though to challenge the Judge of all with it as he should enter his presence.
We wound our modesty and make foul the clearness of our deservings when of ourselves we publish them.
We wrap ourselves up in the cloak of our own better fortune, and turn away our eyes, lest the wants and woes of our brother-mortals should disturb the selfish apathy of our souls.
We write from aspiration and antagonism, as well as from experience. We paint those qualities which we do not possess.
We'd jump the life to come. But, in these
cases, / We still have judgment here; that we but teach / Bloody instructions, which, being taught, return / To plague the inventor. This even-handed justice / Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice / To our own lips.
We'll stand up for our properties, was the beggar's song, that lived upon the alms-basket.
Weak eyes are precisely the fondest of glittering objects.
Weak minds sink under prosperity as well as under adversity; strong and deep ones have two highest tides--when the moon is at the full, and when there is no moon.
Weak persons cannot be sincere.
Weak Virtue that amid the shade / Lamenting
lies, with future schemes amused, / While Wickedness and Folly, kindred powers, / Confound the world!
Weakness of character is the only defect which cannot be amended.
Weaknesses, so called, are neither more nor less than vice in disguise.
Wealth and want equally harden the human heart, as frost and fire are both alien to the human flesh. Famine and gluttony alike drive nature away from the heart of man.
Wealth consists of the good, and therefore useful, things in the possession of the nation; money is only the written or coined sign of the relative quantities of wealth in each person's possession.
Wealth cannot purchase any great private
solace or convenience. Riches are only the means of sociality.
Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished; but he that gathereth by labour shall increase.
Wealth heaped on wealth, nor truth nor safety buys; / The dangers gather as the treasures rise.
Wealth imparts a birdlime quality to the possessor, at which the man in his native poverty would have revolted.
Wealth implies the possession of what is of intrinsic value and of a capacity to use it.
Wealth is a shift. The wise man angles with
himself only, and with no meaner bait.
Wealth is not his that has it, but his that enjoys it.
Wealth is the application of mind to nature; and the art of getting rich consists not in industry, much less in saving, but in a better order, in timeliness, in being at the right spot.
Wealth is the conjuror's devil; / Whom when he thinks he hath, the devil hath him.
Wealth is the possession of useful articles which we can use, (so that) instead of depending merely on a "have," it is thus seen to depend on a "can."
Wealth leaves us at death; kinsmen at the
grave; but virtues of the mind unto the heavens with us we have.
Wealth makes wit waver.
Wealth maketh many friends, but the poor is separated from his neighbour.
Wealth of every species necessarily flows to the hands of him who exerteth himself.
Wealth only by its use we know.
Wealth, power, and even the advantages of
youth, have little to do with that which gives repose to the mind and firmness to the frame.
Wealth richer than both the Indies lies for every man, if he will endure. Not his oaks only and his fruit-trees, his very heart roots itself wherever he may abide--roots itself, draws nourishment from the deep fountains of universal being.

Wealth which breeds idleness, of which the English peerage is an example, and of which we are beginning to abound in specimens in oyster-bed, where heirs and heiresses are planted, to spend a contemptible life of slothfulness in growing plump and succulent for the grave-worm's banquet.
Wealth without contentment climbs a hill, / To feel those tempests which fly over ditches.
Wear your learning, like your watch, in a private pocket; and do not pull it out and strike it, merely to show that you have one. If you are asked what o'clock it is, tell it, but do not proclaim it hourly and unasked, like the watchmen.
Wearers of rings and chains! / Pray do not
take the pains / To set me right. / In vain my faults ye quote; / I write as others wrote / On Sunium's height.
Weariness / Can snore upon the flint, when resty sloth / Finds the down pillow hard.
Weary the path that does not challenge reason. Doubt is an incentive to truth, and patient inquiry leadeth the way.
Weave in faith and God will find thread.
Weder sicher noch gerathen ist, etwas wider Gewissen zu thun. Hier stehe ich, ich kann nicht anders. Gott helfe mir
Wedlock, indeed, hath oft compared been / To publick feasts, where meet a publick rout: / When they that are without would fain go in, / And they that are within would fain go out.
Wedlock is like a besieged fortress: those who are outside wish to get in, and those who are inside wish to get out.
Wee modest crimson-tipped flower, / Thou's
met me in an evil hour; / For I maun crush amang the stour / Thy slender stem; / To spare thee now is past my power, / Thou bonny gem.
Wee Willie Winkie rins through the toun, / Upstairs and dounstairs, in his nicht-goun, / Tirlin' at the window, cryin' at the lock, / "Are the weans in their bed? for it's noo ten o'clock."
Weed your better judgments / Of all opinion that grows rank in them.
Weeds make dunghills gracious.
Weel is that weel does.
Weep no more, lady, weep no more. / For
sorrow is in vain; / For violets pluck'd, the sweetest showers / Will ne'er revive again.
Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.
Weh dem Lande, wo man nicht mehr singt
Weigh not so much what men say, as what they prove: remembering that truth is simple and naked, and needs not invective to apparel her comeliness.
Weighty things are done in solitude, that is, without society. The means of improvement consist not in projects, or in any violent designs, for these cool, and cool very soon, but in patient practising for whole long days, by which I make the thing clear to my highest reason.
Weighty work must be done with few words.
Weise Hut, / Behält ihr Gut
Weise sein ist nicht allzeit gut
Weiser Mann, starker Mann
Weisheit, du wirst Unsinn / Im Mund des Schwärmers
Welch Glück geliebt zu werden: / Und lieben,
Götter, welch ein Glück!
Welcome evermore to gods and men is the self-helping man.
Welcome is the best cheer.
Welcome, Misfortune, if thou comest alone.
Well at ease are the sleepers for whom existence is a shallow dream.
Well for the drones of the social hive that there
are bees of an industrious turn, willing, for an infinitesimal share of the honey, to undertake the labour of its fabrication.
Well has Ennius said, "Kindnesses misplaced are nothing but a curse and disservice."
Well-married, a man is winged; ill-matched, he is shackled.
Well roared, lion.
Well thriveth that well suffereth.
Well to work and make a fire, / Doth both
care and skill require.
Well, well, is a word of malice.
Well, whiles I am a beggar, I will rail, / And say, there is no sin but to be rich; / And being rich, my virtue then shall be, / To say, there is no vice but beggary.
Well, you may fear too far.--/ Safer than trust too far.
Wem nicht zu rathen ist, dem ist auch nicht zu helfen
Wen die Natur zum Dichter schuf, den lehrt
sie auch zu paaren / Das Schöne mit dem Kräftigen, das Neue mit dem Wahren
Wen Gott niederschlägt, der richtet sich selbst nicht auf
Wen jemand lobt, dem stellt er sich gleich
Wenn alle untreu werden, / So bleib' ich dir doch treu
Wenn das Geld im Kasten klingt, / Die Seele aus dem Fegfeuer springt
Wenn das Glück anpocht, soll man ihm aufthun
Wenn das Leblose lebendig ist, so kann es auch wohl Lebendiges hervorbringen
Wenn der Purpur fällt, muss auch der Herzog nach
Wenn du eine weise Antwort verlangst, / Musst du vernünftig fragen
Wenn du nicht irrst, kommst du nicht zu Verstand
Wenn ein Edler gegen dich fehlt, / So thu' als
hättest du's nicht gezählt; / Er wird es in sein Schuldbuch schreiben / Und dir nicht lange im Debet bleiben
Wenn Gott sagt: Heute, sagt der Teufel: Morgen
Wenn ihr's nicht fühlt, ihr werdet's nicht erjagen
Wenn man von den Leuten Pflichten fordert und ihnen keine Rechte zugestehen will, muss man sie gut bezahlen
Wenn man was Böses thut, erschrickt man vor dem Bösen
Wenn mancher Mann wüsste, / Wer mancher Mann wär', / Thät' mancher Mann manchem Mann / Manchmal mehr Ehr'
Wenn Moses nicht bei Aaron ist, so macht Aaron--Kälber
Wenn sich der Verirrte findet / Freuen alle
Götter sich
Wer allen alles traut, dem kann man wenig trauen
Wer darf das Kind beim rechten Namen nennen?
Wer darf ihn nennen?
Wer den Tod fürchtet, hat das Leben verloren
Wer der Dichtkunst Stimme nicht vernimmt, /
Ist ein Barbar, er sei auch wer er sei
Wer der Vorderste ist, führt die Herde
Wer die Leiter hinauf will, muss bei der untersten Sprosse schon beginnen
Wer die Wahrheit kennet und saget sie nicht, / Der bleibt fürwahr ein erbärmlicher Wicht
Wer dir als Freund nichts nützen kann / Kann allemal als Feind dir schaden
Wer edel ist, den suchet die Gefahr / Und er
sucht sie, sie müssen sich treffen
Wer erst klug wird nach der That, / Braucht seine Weisheit viel zu spat
Wer fertig ist, dem ist nichts recht zu machen; / Ein Werdender wird immer dankbar sein
Wer fremde Sprachen nicht kennt, weiss nichts von seiner eignen
Wer fröhlich sein will sein Lebenlang / Lasse der Welt ihren tollen Gang
Wer ist der Weiseste? Der nichts anders
weiss und will, als das was begegnet
Wer ist ein unbrauchbarer Man? Der nicht befehlen und auch nicht gehorchen kann
Wer ist grösser, Schiller, Goethe? / Wie man nur so mäkeln mag! / Himmlisch ist die Morgenröte, / Himmlisch ist der helle Tag
Wer ist mächtiger als der Tod? / Wer da kann lachen, wenn er droht
Wer kann was Dummes, wer was Kluges denken, / Das nicht die Vorwelt schon gedacht?
Wer lange bedenkt, der wählt nicht immer
das Beste
Wer lügt, der stiehlt
Wer mit sich selber eins, ist eins mit Gott
Wer nicht Bitteres gekostet hat, weiss nicht was süss ist
Wer nicht hören will, der muss fühlen
Wer nicht liebt Wein, Weib und Gesang /
Der bleibt ein Narr sein Lebenlang
Wer nichts für andre thut, thut nichts für sich
Wer nichts fürchtet, ist nicht weniger mächtiger, als der, den alles fürchtet
Wer nie sein Brod mit Thränen ass, / Wer nicht die kummervollen Nächte / Auf seinem Bette weinend sass / Der kennt euch nicht, ihr himmlischen Mächte
Wer oft schiesst, trifft endlich
Wer sein eigener Lehrmeister sein will, hat
einen Narren zum Schüler
Wer sich behaglich fühlt zu Haus, / Der rennt nicht in die Welt hinaus; / Weltunzufriedenheit beweisen / Die vielen Weltentdeckungsreisen
Wer will, der vermag
Wer will was Lebendig's erkennen und beschreiben / Sucht erst den Geist herauszutreiben, / Dann hat er die Teile in seiner Hand, / Fehlt leider, nur das geistige Band
Wer wohl sitzt, der rücke nicht
Were a man of pleasure to arrive at the full extent of his several wishes, he must immediately feel himself miserable.
Were defeat unknown, neither would victory be celebrated with songs of triumph.
Were I a steam-engine, wouldst thou take the trouble to tell lies of me?
Were I so tall to reach the pole / Or grasp
the ocean with my span, / I must be measured by my soul: / The mind's the standard of the man.
Were it no for hope the heart wad break.
Were it not miraculous, could I stretch forth my hand and clutch the sun? Dost thou not see that the true inexplicable God-revealing miracle lies in this, that I can stretch forth my hand at all, that I have free force to clutch aught therewith?
Were man / But constant, he were perfect.
Were man not a poor hungry dastard, and even much of a blockhead withal, he would cease criticising his victuals to such extent, and criticise himself rather, what he does with his victuals.
Were one to preach a sermon on Health, as
really were worth doing, Scott ought to be the text.
Were the eye not sun-related
could never see the sun; were there not in us divine affinities, how could the divine so ravish us?
"Were there as many devils in Worms as there are roof-tiles, I would on."
Were there but one man in the world, he would be a terror to himself; and the highest man not less so than the lowest.
Were we as eloquent as angels, we would please some men, some women, and some children much more by listening than by talking.
Were we to take as much pains to be what we
ought to be as we do to disguise what we really are, we might appear like ourselves, without being at the trouble of any disguise at all.
Were wisdom given me with this reservation, that I should keep it shut up within myself and not impart it, I would spurn it.
Were wisdom to be sold, she would give no price; every man is satisfied with the share he has from nature.
Westward the course of empire takes its way.
What a blessed thing it is that Nature, when she invented, manufactured, and patented her authors, contrived to make critics out of the chips that were left!
What a delight to have a husband beside you,
were it only to salute you when you sneeze, and say "God bless you!"
What a dismal, debasing, and confusing element is that of a sick body on the human soul or thinking part!
What a fool is he who locks his door to keep out spirits, who has in his own bosom a spirit he dares not meet alone; whose voice, smothered far down, and piled over with mountains of earthliness, is yet like the forewarning trumpet of doom!
What a force of illusion begins life with us, and attends us to the end!
What a heavy burden is a name that has become too soon famous!
What a hell of witchcraft lies in the small orb
of one particular tear!
What a large volume of adventures may be grasped within this little span of life by him who interests his heart in everything.
What a man can do is his greatest ornament, and he always consults his dignity by doing it.
What a man does not believe can never at bottom be of any true interest to him.
What a man does, that he has.
What a man does, that he is.
What a man finds good of, and what he finds hurt of, is the best physic to preserve health.
What a man is contributes much more to his happiness than what he has or how others regard him.
What a man is irresistibly urged to say, helps him and us.
What a man wills, not what he knows, determines his worth or unworth, his power or impotence, his happiness or unhappiness.
What a miserable world!--trouble if we love,
and trouble if we do not love.
What a piece of work is a man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculty! In form and moving how express and admirable! In action how like an angel! In apprehension how like a God!
What a poor creature is the woman who, inspiring desire, does not also inspire love and reverence!
What a road had human nature to traverse before it reached the point of being mild to the guilty, merciful to the injurious, and humane to the inhuman! Doubtless they were men of godlike souls who first taught this, who spent their lives in rendering the practice of this possible, and recommending it to others.
What a sense of security is in an old book which Time has criticised for us!
What a strange thing man is! and what a
stranger / Is woman!
What a thin film it is that divides the living from the dead!
What a vanity is painting, which attracts admiration by the resemblance of things that in the original we do not admire!
What a view a man must have of this universe who thinks he can swallow it all, who is not doubly and trebly happy that he can keep it from swallowing him!
What a wretched thing is all fame! A renown of the highest sort endures, say for two thousand years. And then? Why then a fathomless eternity swallows it.
What actually constitutes the human element
in man is a kindly spirit.
What an enormous camera obscura magnifier is Tradition! How a thing grows in the human memory, in the human imagination, when love, worship, and all that lies in the human heart is there to encourage it!
What an inaccessible stronghold that man possesses who is always in earnest with himself and the things around him!
What are all our histories but God manifesting himself, that he hath shaken, and tumbled down, and trampled upon everything that he hath not planted!
What are all prayers beneath / But cries of babes, that cannot know / Half the deep thought they breathe?
What are men better than sheep or goats, /
That nourish a blind life within the brain, / If, knowing God, they lift not hands of prayer / Both for themselves and those who call them friend?
What are the outward details of a life, if the inner secret of it, the remorse, temptations, true, often-baffled, never-ended struggle of it, be forgotten? Details by themselves will never teach us what it is.
What are we great ones on the wave of humanity? We think we rule it when it rules us, and drives us up and down, hither and thither, as it listeth.
What are words but empty sounds, that break and scatter in the air, and make no real impression?
What are your axioms, and categories, and systems, and aphorisms? Words, words. High air-castles are cunningly built of words, the words well bedded in good logic-mortar; wherein, however, no knowledge will come to lodge.
What Art had Homer? what Art had Shakespeare?
Patient, docile, valiant intelligence, conscious and unconscious, gathered from all winds, of these two things--their own faculty of utterance, and the audience they had to utter to; add only to which, as the soul of the whole, a blazing, radiant insight into the fact, blazing, burning interest about it, and we have the whole Art of Shakespeare and Homer.
What art was to the ancient world, science is to the modern.
What avail the largest gifts of Heaven, / When drooping health and spirits go amiss? / How tasteless then whatever can be given! / Health is the vital principle of bliss, / And exercise of health.
What avails a superfluity of freedom which we cannot use?
What avails the dram of brandy while it swims chemically united with its barrel of wort? Let the distiller pass it and repass it through his limbecs; for it is the drops of pure alcohol we want, not the gallons of water, which may be had in every ditch.
What belongs to everybody belongs to nobody.
What better time for driving, riding, walking, moving through the air by any means, than a fresh, frosty morning, when hope runs cheerily through the veins with the brisk blood and tingles in the frame from head to foot?
What bitter pills, / Compos'd of real ills, / Men swallow down to purchase one false good.
What boots it at one gate to make defence, / And at another to let in the foe?
What boots the hero-arm without a hero-eye?
What built St. Paul's Cathedral? Look at
the heart of the matter, it was that divine Hebrew Book, the word partly of the man Moses, an outlaw tending his Midianitish herds four thousand years ago in the wildernesses of Sinai!
What by straight path cannot be reached, / By crooked ways is never won.
What can be done, you must do for yourself.
What can ennoble sots, or slaves, or cowards? / Alas! not all the blood of all the Howards.
What can Fate devise to vanquish Love?
What can they see in the longest kingly line
in Europe, save that it runs back to a successful soldier?
What can we reason, but from what we know?
What cannot be abused is good for nothing.
What cannot be avoided, / 'Twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
What cannot be eschew'd must be embraced.
What can't be cured must be endured.
What care I for words? yet words do well / When he that speaks them pleases those that hear.
What cares any man for appearances except as signs of what otherwise he cannot see?
"What cheer? Brother, quickly tell." / "Above"--"Below." "Good-night"--"All's well."
What chiefly distinguishes great artists from feeble artists is first their sensibility and tenderness; secondly, their imagination; and thirdly, their industry.
What comes from God to us, returns from
us to God.
What comes from the heart goes to the heart.
What constitutes a state?... Men who their duties know, / But know their rights, and knowing, dare maintain.
What devilry soever kings do, the Greeks must pay the piper.
What dire offence from amorous causes springs! / What mighty contests rise from trivial things!
What distinguishes Christianity from all monotheistic religions lies in nothing else than in a making-dead to the law, the removal of the Kantian imperative; instead of which Christianity requires a free inclination.
What divine, what truly great thing has ever been effected by force of public opinion?
What do I gain from a man into whose eyes I cannot look when he is speaking, and the mirror of whose soul is veiled to me by a pair of glasses which dazzle me?
What do you mean by composing tragedies, when Tragedy in person stalks every street?
What does competency in the long-run mean? It means, to all reasonable beings, cleanliness of person, decency of dress, courtesy of manners, opportunities for education, the delights of leisure, and the bliss of giving.
 (somet
What doth cherish weeds, but gentle air? / And what makes robbers bold, but too much lenity?
What doth the Lord require of thee, but to do
justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?
What exile from himself can flee?
What fates impose, that men must needs abide; / It boots not to resist both wind and tide.
What! fly from love? vain hope: there's no retreat, / When he has wings and I have only feet.
What glitters is for the moment; the genuine is for all time.
What God does all day is not to sit waiting
in churches for people to come and worship him.
What God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.
What God makes he never mars.
What good I see humbly I seek to do, / And live obedient to the law, in trust / That what will come, and must come, shall come well.
What governs men is the fear of truth, except such as is useful to them.
What great thing ever happened in this
world, a world understood always to be made and governed by wisdom, without meaning somewhat?
What gunpowder did for war, the printing-press has done for the mind; and the statesman is no longer clad in the steel of special education, but every reading man is his judge.
What hands build, hands can pull down.
What has been, may be; and what may be, may be supposed to be.
What has been written, as well as what has been actually done, shrivels up and ceases to be worth anything, until it has again been taken up into life, been again felt, thought, and acted upon.
What has never anywhere come to pass, that
alone never grows old.
What has posterity done for us / That we, lest they their rights should lose, / Should trust our necks to gripe of noose?
What hath he to do with a soul who doth not keep his passions in subjection?
What have I to do, ... either with your amusements or your pleasures, unless it was in my power to increase their measure?
What have kings that privates have not too, / Save ceremony, save general ceremony?
What have not you men to answer for who
talk of love to a woman when her face is all you know of her, and her passions, her aspirations, are for kissing to sleep, her very soul a plaything?
What he greatly thought, he nobly dared.
What house more stately hath there been, / Or can be, than is Man?
What hypocrites we seem to be whenever we talk of ourselves! Our words sound so humble, while our hearts are so proud.
What I cannot praise I speak not of.
What I for many a day wished, life has not
granted me, but it has instead taught me this, that my wish was a foolish one.
What I gave, that I have; / What I spent, that I had; / What I left, that I lost.
What I have written, I have written.
What I must do is all that concerns me, not what the people think.
What I object to is, not the poetry of sadness, but the sadness of poetry. Many of the poets make out the fountain of poetry to be only a fountain of tears.
What, indeed, is man's life generally but a
kind of beast-godhood; the god in us triumphing more and more over the beast; striving more and more to subdue it under his feet?
What is a foreign country to those who have science?
What is a handful of reasonable men against a crowd with stones in their hands?
What is a man, / If his chief good and market of his time, / Be but to sleep, and feed? A beast, no more.
What is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?
What is against Nature is against God.
What is all working, what is all knowing, but a faint interpreting, and a faint showing forth of the mystery, which ever remains infinite?
What, is any one, simply by birth, to be punished or applauded?
What is aught but as 'tis valued?
What is barely necessary cannot be dispensed with.
What is becoming is honourable, and what is
honourable is becoming.
What is beneath me floors me; what is on a level with me bores me; only what is above me supports and lifts me above myself.
What is bought is cheaper than a gift.
What is bred in the bone will never come out of the flesh.
What is called the spirit of the times is at bottom but the spirit of the gentlemen in which the times are mirrored.
What is cheapest to you now is likely to be
dearest in the end.
What is chiefly needed in the England of the present day is to show the quantity of pleasure that may be obtained by a consistent, well-administered competence, modest, confessed, and laborious.
What is difficulty? Only a word indicating the degree of strength requisite for accomplishing particular objects; a mere notice of the necessity for exertion; a bugbear to children and fools; only a mere stimulus to men.
What is distance to the indefatigable?
What is done by night appears by day.
What is done for those who have not their
passions in subjection, is like washing the elephant
What is done in a hurry is never done well.
What is done is done; has already blended itself with the boundless, ever-living, ever-working universe, and will also work there, for good or evil, openly or secretly, through all time.
What is everybody's business is nobody's business.
What is excellent should never be carped at nor discussed, but enjoyed and reverentially thought over in silence.
What is extraordinary try to look at with your
own eyes.
What is false taste but want of perception to discern propriety and distinguish beauty?
What is generally accepted as virtue in women is very different from what is thought so in men: a very good woman would make but a paltry man.
What is generally considered true amounts to much the same as if it were actually true.
What is genius or courage without a heart?
What is genuine but that which is truly excellent,
which stands in harmony with the purest nature or reason, and which even now ministers to our highest development! What is spurious but the absurd and the hollow, which brings no fruit--at least, no good fruit.
What is gray with age becomes religion.
What is happiness? To animals in this world, health.
What is important is to have a soul which loves truth, and receives it wherever it finds it.
What is in will out.
What is it
but an altercation with him before you begin honestly fighting with him?
What is it that keeps men in continual discontent and agitation? It is that they cannot make realities correspond with their conceptions, that enjoyment steals away from among their hands, that the wished-for comes too late, and nothing reached and acquired produces on the heart the effect which their longing for it at a distance led them to anticipate.
What is justice but another form of the reality we love--a truth acted out?
What is kindness? A principle in the good.
What is known to three is known to everybody.
What is learned in the cradle is carried to the
tomb.
What is life but the choice of that good which contains the least of evil!
What is life except the knitting up of incoherences into coherence?
What is man but a symbol of God, and all that he does, if not symbolical, a revelation to sense of the mystic God-given force that is in him?
What is man, / If his chief good, and market of his time, / Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no man.
What is mine, even to my life, is hers I love;
but the secret of my friend is not mine!
What is modesty, if it deserts from truth?
What is more at ease, more abstracted from the world, than a true single-hearted honesty?
What is much desired is not believed when it comes.
What is my life if I am no longer to be of use to others?
What is nearest is often unattainably far off.
What is nearest us touches us most.
What is new finds better acceptance than what is good or great.
What is noble?--That which places / Truth in its enfranchised will, / Leaving steps, like angel-traces, / That mankind may follow still!
What is not allotted the hand cannot reach, and what is allotted will find you wherever you may be.
What is not sung is properly no poem, but a
piece of prose cramped into jingling lines,--to the great injury of the grammar, to the great grief of the reader, for the most part!
What is not to be, that is not to be; if it be to come to pass, it cannot be otherwise. This reasoning is an antidote. Why doth not the afflicted one drink of it?
What is not true has this advantage that it can be eternally talked about; whereas about truth there is an urgency that cries out for its application, for otherwise it has no right to be there.
What is not worth reading more than once is not worth reading at all.
What is now called the nature of women is an eminently artificial thing--the result of forced repression in some directions, unnatural stimulation in others.
What is obvious is not always known, and what
is known is not always present.
What is of the earth has no permanence; our hearts yearn after a better land.
What is often termed shyness is nothing more than refined sense, and an indifference to common observations.
What is our life but an endless flight of winged facts or events?
What is past is past. There is a future left to all men, who have the virtue to repent and the energy to atone.
What is philosophy? An entire separation from the world.
What is reason now was passion formerly.
What is religion? Compassion for all things
that have life.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
What is specially true of love is, that it is a state of extreme impressionability; the lover has more senses and finer senses than others; his eye and ear are telegraphs; he reads omens in the flower and cloud and face and form and gesture, and reads them aright.
What is strength without a double share / Of wisdom? vast, unwieldy, burdensome, / Proudly secure, yet liable to fall / By weakest subtleties; not made to rule, / But to subserve where wisdom bears command.
What is the adored Supreme Perfection, say?--/ What, but eternal never-resting soul, / Almighty power, and all-directing day; / By whom each atom stirs, the planets roll; / Who fills, surrounds, informs, and agitates the whole.
What is the best government? That which
teaches us to govern ourselves.
What is the best in the world? Healthy blood, sinews of steel, and strong nerves.
What is the body when the head is off?
What is the city but the people? True, the people are the city.
What is the elevation of the soul? A prompt, delicate, certain feeling for all that is beautiful, all that is grand; a quick resolution to do the greatest good by the smallest means; a great benevolence joined to a great strength and great humility.
What is the good of fear? The whole solar
system were it to fall together about our ears could kill us only once.
What is the highest secret of victory and peace? To will what God wills, and strike a league with destiny.
What is the majority? Majority is nonsense
Understanding has always been only with the minority.
What is the true test of character, unless it be its progressive development in the bustle and turmoil, in the action and reaction, of daily life?
What is the use of a lamp to a blind man, although it be burning in his hand?
What is the use of health or of life, if not to
do some work therewith?
What is the voice of song, when the world lacks the ear of taste?
What is there good in us if it is not the power and inclination to appropriate to ourselves the resources of the outward world, and to make them subservient to our higher ends?
What! is there no bribing death?
What is this day's strong suggestion? / "The passing moment's all we rest on!"
What is this life of ours? Gone in a moment,
burnt up like a scroll, into the blank eternity.
What is too great a load for those who have strength?
What is truth?
What is twice read is commonly better remembered than what is transcribed.
What is valuable is not new, and what is new is not valuable.
"What is wanting," said Napoleon one day to
Madame Campan, "in order that the youth of France be well educated?" "Good mothers," was the reply. The Emperor was most forcibly struck with this answer. "Here," said he, "is a system in one word."
What is writ is writ.
What joy a self-sufficing fortune yields, / Such modest livelihood is dear to me. The wise old maxim, "Not too much," / Too much has power my heart to touch.
What life only half imparts to man, posterity shall give entirely.
What love can do, that dares love attempt.
What love hides is raised as from the dead /
Some day, and kills the love which covered it, / And frankest truth is more than subtle wit.
What makes all doctrines plain and clear? / About two hundred pounds a year. / And that which was prov'd true before / Prove false again, two hundred more.
What makes life dreary is the want of motive.
What makes lovers never tire of each others' society is that they talk always about themselves.
What makes many so discontented with their own condition is the absurd estimate they form of the happiness of others.
What makes old age so sad is, not that our
joys, but that our hopes then cease.
What makes people discontented with their condition is the chimerical idea they conceive of the happiness of others.
What makes vanity so insufferable to us is that it wounds our own.
What man dare do, in circumstances of danger, an Englishman will. His virtues seem to sleep in the calm, and are called out only to combat the kindred storm.
What man dare, I dare.
What man didst thou ever know unthrift, that
was beloved after his means?
What man has done, man can do.
What man wants is always that the highest in his nature be set at the top and actively reign there.
What matter though I doubt at every pore ... / If finally I have a life to show, / The thing I did, brought out in evidence / Against the thing done to me underground / By hell and all its brood, for aught I know?
What matters it though the Gospels contradict each other if the Gospel does not contradict itself?
What matters it whether the alphabet
which you are to spell out the meaning of life) 
which you are to spell out the meaning of life)  ones, so you have an eye to read it?
What may be dune at ony time will be dune at
nae time.
What men prize most is a privilege, even if it be that of chief mourner at a funeral.
What men usually say of misfortunes, that they never come alone, may with equal truth be said of good fortune; nay, of other circumstances which gather round us in a harmonious way, whether it arise from a kind of fatality, or that man has the power of attracting to himself things that are mutually related.
What men want is not talent; it is purpose.
What millions died that Cæsar might be great!
What must be, shall be.
What Nature does not reveal to thy spirit, thou wilt not wrench from her with levers and screws.
What need the bridge much broader than the flood? The fairest grant is the necessity; look, what will serve is fit.
What need we have any friends, if we should never have need of them?
What needs my Shakespeare for his honour'd bones?
What of books? Hast thou not already a Bible
to write and publish in print that is eternal, namely, a Life to lead?
What once were vices are now the manners of the day.
What people call her
hers at all; but that of her kings (though the history of them is worth reading), or the tax-gatherers employed by them, which is as if people were to call Mr. Gladstone's history or Mr. Lowe's, yours or mine.
What perils on a woman's life may throng, / Sitting lonely with her thoughts, that chafe and murmur like the surf!
What persons are by starts, they are by nature. You see them at such times off their guard. Habit may restrain vice, and virtue may be obscured by passion, but intervals best discover the man.
What profit is it for men now to live in heaviness,
and after death to look for punishment?
What proves the hero truly great, / Is never, never to despair.
What quite infinite worth lies in Truth! how all-pervading, omnipotent, in man's mind is the thing we name Belief!
What rage for fame attends both great and small! / Better be damned than mentioned not at all.
What rein can hold licentious wickedness / When down the hill he holds his fierce career?
What religion do I profess! None of all you
name to me. Why none? Out of respect to religion.
What right have you, O passer-by-the-way, to call any flower a weed? Do you know its merits, its virtues, its healing qualities? Because a thing is common, shall you despise it? If so, you might despise the sunshine for the same reason.
What rights are his that dare not strike for them?
"What says Lord Warwick? Shall we after them?" "After them! Nay, before them if we can."
What shadows we are, and what shadows we pursue!
What shall be, shall be--that is all; / To one
great Will we stand and fall, / "The Scheme hath need"--we ask not why, / And in this faith we live or die.
What shapest thou here at the world; 'Tis shapen long ago; / The Maker shaped it, He thought it best even so. / Thy lot is appointed, go follow its hest; / Thy journey's begun, thou must move and not rest; / For sorrow and care cannot alter thy case, / And running, not raging, will win thee the race.
What signifies the life o' man / An' twerna for the lasses, O?
What signifies the loss of a Hercules even to the loss of an idea?
What signifies your gear? / A mind that's scrimpit never wants some care.
What should a wise man do if he is given a
blow? What Cato did when some one struck him on the mouth;--not fire up or revenge the insult, or even return the blow, but simply ignore it.
What skills it if a bag of stones or gold / About thy neck do drown thee? Raise thy head; / Take stars for money; stars not to be told / By any art, yet to be purchased.
What stronger breastplate than a heart untainted!
What the eye does not admire, / The heart does not desire.
What the eye don't see, the heart don't grieve.
What the fool does in the end, the wise man
does at the beginning.
What the heart has once owned and had, it shall never lose.
What the heart or the imagination dictates always flows readily; but where there is no subject to warm or interest these, constraint appears.
What the light of your mind pronounces incredible, that, in God's name, leave uncredited.
What the Maker sends us remains mysteriously with us after the bearer of it is dead and gone; and we, as we "mourn over, long for, and love distant and departed" goodness, are more embraced and possessed by it than we were when it was present with us only in the flesh, and we could look upon it and handle it.
What the poet has to cultivate above all things is love and truth;--what he has to avoid, like poison, is the fleeting and the false.
What the Puritans gave the world was not thought, but action.
What the universe was thought to be in Judea and other places, this may be very interesting to know; what it is in England here where we live and have our work to do, that is the interesting point.
What thou seest is not there on its own
account, strictly taken, is not there at all.
What though care killed a cat: thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care.
What though on hamely fare we dine, / Wear hodden gray, and a' that? / Gie fools their silk, and knaves their wine, / A man's a man for a' that.
What though our songs to wit have no pretence, / The fiddlestick shall scrape them into sense.
What though success will not attend on all! / Who bravely dares must sometimes risk a fall.
What though the field be lost? / All is not
lost; th' unconquerable will, / And study of revenge, immortal hate, / And courage never to submit or yield.
What though the foot be shackled; the heart is free.
What, though thou wert rich and of high esteem, dost thou yield to sorrow because of thy loss of fortune?
What tragic wastes of gloom / Curtain the soul that strives and sins below!
What trifling silliness is the childish fondness of the every-day children of the world! 'Tis the unmeaning toying of the younglings of the fields and forests.
What 'twas weak to do, / 'Tis weaker to
lament, once being done.
What unknown seas of feeling lie in man, and will from time to time break through!
What was my morning's thought, at night's the same; / The poor and rich but differ in the name. / Content's the greatest bliss we can procure / Frae 'boon the lift; without it kings are poor.
What was once to me / Mere matter of the fancy, now has grown / The vast necessity of heart and life.
What we are going to, is abundantly obscure; but what all men are going from, is very plain.
What we are, that only can we see.
What we call conscience, in many instances, is only a wholesome fear of the constable.
What we call our root-and-branch reforms of slavery, war, gambling, intemperance, is only medicating the symptoms. We must begin higher up, namely, in education.
What we do determine oft we break, / Purpose is but the slave to memory.
What we do not understand we have no business to judge.
What we do not use is a heavy burden.
What we don't know is just what we need to know; and what we do know we can make no use of.
What we foolishly call vastness is not more wonderful or not more impressive than what we insolently call littleness.
What we have been makes us what we are.
What we have in us of the image of God is the love of truth and justice.
What we have we prize not to the worth, /
Whiles we enjoy it; but being lack'd and lost, / Why then we rack the value.
What we hope ever to do with ease we may learn first to do with diligence.
What we like determines what we are, and is the sign of what we are.
What we need most is not so much to realise the ideal as to idealise the real.
What we poor mortals have to do is to endure and keep ourselves upright as well and as long as we can. God disposes as he thinks best.
What we pray to ourselves for is always
granted.
What we truly and earnestly aspire to be, that in some sense we are. The mere aspiration, by changing the frame of the mind, for the moment realises itself.
What we want to be pleased with flattery, is to believe that the man is sincere who gives it us.
What we want to believe, what it suits our convenience, or pleasure, or prejudice to believe, one need not go to sea to learn what slender logic will incline us to believe.
What? wearied out with half a life? / Scared with this smooth unbloody strife? / Think where thy coward hopes had flown / Had Heaven held out the martyr's crown.
What were mighty Nature's self? / Her
features could they win us, / Unhelp'd by the poetic voice / That hourly speaks within us?
What will not woman, gentle woman, dare, / When strong affection stirs her spirit up?
What will you have? quoth God; pay for it and take it.
What you can't get is just what suits you.
What you do not risk all to part with
thou hast not loved and possessed entirely.
What you enjoy is yours; what for your heirs /
You hoard, already is not yours, but theirs.
What you see is but the smallest part / And least proportion of humanity; / ... Were the whole frame here, / It is of such a spacious lofty pitch, / Your roof were not sufficient to contain it.
What your heart thinks great is great. The soul's emphasis is always right.
What's aught but as 'tis valued?
What's come to perfection perishes. / Things learned on earth we shall practise in heaven; / Works done least rapidly art most cherishes.
What's done cannot be undone.
What's done we partly may compute, / But
know not what's resisted.
What's fitting, that is right.
What's gone and what's past help / Should be past grief.
What's good for the bee is good for the hive.
What's Hecuba to him or he to Hecuba, / That he should weep for her?
What's impossible cannot be, / And never,
never comes to pass.
What's in a name? That which we call a rose / By any other name would smell as sweet.
What's more miserable than discontent?
What's nane o' my profit will be nane o' my peril.
What's not set about to-day is never finished on the morrow.
What's the good of a sun-dial in the shade?
What's the good of the pipe if it's not played on?
What's yours is mine, and what's mine's my ain.
Whate'er disturbs his onward course, / Whate'er brings gloom or strife, / It must away, for e'er he sings / The poet must have life.
Whate'er he did was done with so much ease, / In him alone 'twas natural to please.
Whate'er my future years may be: / Let joy
or grief my fate betide; / Be still an Eden bright to me / My own, my own fireside!
Whate'er's begun in anger ends in shame.
Whatever a man has to effect must emanate from him as a second self; and how would this be possible were not his first self entirely pervaded by it?
Whatever be the cause of happiness, may be made likewise the cause of misery. The medicine which, rightly applied, has power to cure, has, when rashness or ignorance prescribes it, the same power to destroy.
Whatever be the motive of insult, it is always best to overlook it; for folly scarcely can deserve resentment, and malice is punished by neglect.
Whatever beauty may be, it has for its basis
order and for its essence unity.
Whatever befalls us, though it is wise to be serious, it is useless and foolish, and perhaps sinful, to be gloomy.
Whatever bit of a wise man's work is honestly and benevolently done, that bit is his book or his piece of art.
Whatever comes from the brain carries the hue of the place it came from; and whatever comes from the heart carries the heat and colour of its birthplace.
Whatever comes out of despair cannot bear the title of valour, which should be lifted up to such a height that, holding all things under itself, it should be able to maintain its greatness even in the midst of miseries.
Whatever crushes individuality is despotism,
by whatever name it may be called.
Whatever disunites man from God disunites man from man.
Whatever does not concern us is concealed from us.
Whatever does not possess a true intrinsic vitality cannot live long, and can neither be nor ever become great.
Whatever expands the affections or enlarges the sphere of our sympathies, whatever makes us feel our relation to the universe, and all that it inherits, in time and in eternity, to the great and beneficent Cause of all, must unquestionably refine our nature and elevate us in the scale of being.
Whatever foolish people read, does them
harm; and whatever they write, does other people harm.
Whatever government is not a government of law is a despotism, let it be called what it may.
Whatever has exceeded its due bounds is ever in a state of instability.
Whatever hath been well consulted and well resolved, whether it be to fight well or to run away well, should be carried into execution in due season, without any further examination.
Whatever honour we can pay to their memory, is all that is owing to the dead. Tears and sorrow are no duties to them, and make us incapable of those we owe to the living.
Whatever in literature, art, or religion is done
for money is poisonous itself, and doubly deadly in preventing the hearing or seeing of the noble literature and art which have been done for love and truth.
Whatever is beautiful is also profitable.
Whatever is best is safest, lies most out of the reach of human power, can neither be given nor taken away.
Whatever is graceful is virtuous, and whatever is virtuous is graceful.
Whatever is great in human art is the expression of man's delight in God's work.
Whatever is great promotes cultivation as
soon as we are aware of it.
Whatever is highest and holiest is tinged with melancholy. The eye of genius has always a plaintive expression, and its natural language is pathos. A prophet is sadder than other men; and He who was greater than all prophets was "a man of sorrow and acquainted with grief."
Whatever is, is right.
Whatever is known to thyself alone has always very great value.
Whatever is natural admits of variety.
Whatever is new is unlooked for, and ever it mends some and impairs others; and he that is holpen takes it for a fortune, and he that is hurt for a wrong.
Whatever is not made of asbestos will have to be burnt in this world.
Whatever is pure is also simple. It does not keep the eye on itself. The observer forgets the window in the landscape it displays. A fine style gives the view of fancy--its figures, its trees, or its palaces--without a spot.
Whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing
well.
Whatever lifts a man out of the common herd always redounds to his advantage, even if it sink him into a new crowd, in the midst of which his powers of swimming and wading must be put to the test again.
Whatever makes religion its second object, makes it no object.
Whatever may be the natural propensity of any one, it is very hard to overcome. If a dog were made king, would he not gnaw his shoe-straps?
Whatever may happen, every kind of fortune is to be overcome by bearing it.
Whatever may happen to thee, it was prepared
for thee from all eternity; and the complication of causes was from eternity spinning the thread not only of thy being, but of that which is incident to it.
Whatever mitigates the woes or increases the happiness of others, this is my criterion of goodness; and whatever injures society at large, or any individual in it, this is my measure of iniquity.
Whatever of goodness emanates from the soul, gathers its soft halo from the eyes; and if the heart be the lurking-place of crime, the eyes are sure to betray the secret.
Whatever our wanderings, our happiness will always be found within a narrow compass, and amidst the objects more immediately within our reach.
Whatever outward thing offers itself to the eye, is merely the garment or body of a thing which already existed invisibly within.
Whatever purifies the heart, fortifies it.
Whatever sceptic could inquire for, / For every why he had a wherefore.
Whatever that be which thinks, which understands, which wills, which acts, it is something celestial and divine; and upon that account must necessarily be eternal.
Whatever the benefits of fortune are, they yet require a palate fit to relish and taste them; it is fruition, and not possession, that renders us happy.
Whatever the place allotted to us by Providence, that for us is the post of honour and duty.
Whatever the skill of any country may be in
the sciences, it is from its excellence in polite learning alone that it must expect a character from posterity.
Whatever theologians may choose to assert, it is certain that mankind at large has far more virtue than vice.
Whatever these two men
touched with their hands in honest toil became sacred to them, a page out of their own lives. A silent, inarticulate kind of religion they put into their work.
Whatever we think out, whatever we take in hand to do, should be perfectly and finally finished, that a word, if it must alter, will only tend to spoil it; we have then nothing to do but to unite the severed, to recollect and restore the dismembered.
Whatever you are, be a man.
Whatever you may think now, they
are only biding their time; and when you are weak and at their mercy, when the world you fancied you were beyond, has leisure to hear their story and scoff at you, they will come forward and tell all the bitter tale.
Whatso we have done is done, and for us annihilated, and ever must we go and do anew.
Whatsoever a man ought to obey, he cannot but obey.
Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.
Whatsoever God doeth, nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it.
Whatsoever sensibly exists, whatsoever represents
spirit to spirit, is properly a suit of raiment put on for a season and to be laid off.
Whatsoever thine ill, / It must be borne, and these wild starts are useless.
Whatsoever thou takest in hand, remember the end, and thou shalt never do amiss.
Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might.
When a base man means to be your enemy, he always begins with being your friend.
When a bold man is out of countenance, he
makes a very wooden figure on it.
When a child can be brought to tears, not from fear of punishment, but from repentance for his offence, he needs no chastisement. When the tears begin to flow from grief at one's own conduct, be sure there is an angel nestling in the bosom.
When a gentleman is cudgelling his brain to find any rhyme for sorrow besides "borrow" or "to-morrow," his woes are nearer at an end than he thinks.
When a good man has talent, he always works morally for the salvation of the world.
When a great man strikes out into a sudden irregularity, he needs not question the respect of a retinue.
When a head and a book come into collision,
and one sounds empty, is it always the book?
When a husband is embraced without affection, there must be some reason for it.
When a man becomes dear to me, I have touched the goal of fortune.
When a man dies, they who survive him ask what property he has left behind. The angel who bends over the dying man asks what good deeds he has sent before him.
When a man gives himself up to the government of a ruling passion--or, in other words, when his hobby-horse grows headstrong--farewell cool reason and fair discretion!
When a man gives proof that his heart is sound and that his life is sound, there is no divergence of opinion that should keep us from fellowship with him.
When a man has no occasion to borrow, he finds numbers willing to lend him.
When a man has not a good reason for doing
a thing, he has one good reason for letting it alone.
When a man has once forfeited the reputation of his integrity, he is set fast; and nothing will then serve his turn, neither truth nor falsehood.
When a man is base at the heart, he blights his virtues into weaknesses; but when he is true at the heart, he sanctifies his weaknesses into virtues.
When a man is conscious that he does no good himself, the next thing is to cause others to do some.
When a man is going downhill, everybody gives him a kick.
When a man is in indigence, picking herbs is
his philosophy; the enjoyment of his wife his only commerce, and vassalage his food.
When a man is in love with one woman in a family, it is astonishing how fond he becomes of every person connected with it.
When a man is treated with solemnity, he looks upon himself as a higher being, and goes through his solemn feasts devoutly.
When a man is wrong and won't admit it, he always gets angry.
When a man lives with God, his voice shall be as sweet as the murmur of the brook and the rustle of the corn.
When a man mistakes his thoughts for persons
and things, this is madness.
When a man smiles, and much more when he laughs, it adds something to his fragment of life.
When a man versed in his subject treats any topic lovingly and thoroughly, he gives us a share in his interest, and forces us to enter into the topic.
When a man's dog deserts him on account of his poverty, he can't get any lower down in this world.
When a man's pride is subdued, it is like the sides of Mount Ætna. It was terrible during the eruption, but when that is over and the lava is turned into soil, there are vineyards and olive-trees which grow up to the top.
When a man's ways please the Lord, he
maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him.
When a mean wretch cannot vie with another in virtue, out of his wretchedness he begins to slander.
When a misfortune is impending, I cry, "God forbid!" but when it falls upon me, I say, "God be praised!"
When a noble life has prepared old age, it is not the decline that it recalls, but the first days of immortality.
When a nobleman writes a book he ought to be encouraged.
When a pepin is planted on a pepin-stock, the
fruit growing thence is called a renate, a most delicious apple, as both by sire and dame well descended. Thus his blood must needs be well purified who is gentilely born on both sides.
When a poor creature (outwardly and visibly such) comes before thee, do not stay to inquire whether the "seven small children," in whose name he implores thy assistance, have a veritable existence.
When a Sark-foot wife gets on her broomstick, the dames of Allonby are ready to mount.
When a secret is revealed, it is the fault of the man who has intrusted it.
When a thought is too weak to be simply expressed, it is a clear proof that it should be rejected.
When a thought of Plato becomes a thought
to me,--when a truth that fired the soul of Pindar fires mine, time is no more.
When a tree is dead it will lie any way; alive, it will have its own growth.
When a true genius appears in the world you may know him by this sign, that the dunces are all in confederacy against him.
When a wife has a good husband it is easily seen in her face.
When a wise man findeth an occasion, he may bear away his enemy upon his shoulder, as it were.
When a woman wears the breeches, she has a
good right to them.
When a work has a unity, it is as much so in a part as in the whole.
When a writer sets to work again after a long pause, his faculties have, as it were, to be caught in the field and brought in and harnessed.
When a youth is fully in love with a girl, and feels that he is wise in loving her, he should at once tell her so plainly, and take his chance bravely with other suitors.
When Adam dolve and Eve span, / Who was then the gentleman?
When affliction thunders over our roofs, to
hide our heads and run into our graves shows us no men, but makes us fortune's slaves.
When all else is lost, the future still remains.
When all is done, the help of good counsel is that which setteth business straight.
When all is said, the greatest art is to limit and isolate one's self.
When all the blandishments of life are gone, / The coward sneaks to death, the brave live on.
When ambitious men find an open passage, they are rather busy than dangerous; and if well watched in their proceedings, they will catch themselves in their own snare, and prepare a way for their own destruction.
When an author is too fastidious about his style, you may presume that his mind is frivolous and his matter flimsy.
When any fit of anxiety, or gloominess or perversion of the mind, lays hold upon you, make it a rule not to publish it by complaints, but exert your whole care to hide it; by endeavouring to hide it you will drive it away.
When any man finds himself disposed to complain with how little care he is regarded, let him reflect how little he contributes to the happiness of others.
When any one ceases to care for his home, it
is one of the worst possible signs of moral sickness.
When any one has offended me, I try to raise my soul so high that the offence cannot reach it.
When at one with ourselves, we are so with others.
When bad men combine, the good must associate; else they will fall one by one, an unpitied sacrifice in a contemptible struggle.
When bairns are young they gar their parents' heads ache; when they are auld they make their hearts break.
When baseness is exalted, do not bate / The
place its honour for the person's sake.
When beggars die, there are no comets seen: / The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.
When brothers part for manhood's race, / What gift may most endearing prove / To keep fond memory in her place, / And certify a brother's love? / ... No fading frail memorial give / To sooth his soul when thou art gone, / But wreathes of hope for aye to live, / And thoughts of good together done.
When caught by a tempest, wherever it be, / If it lightens and thunders, beware of a tree.
When children stand quiet, they have done some harm.
When children, we are sensualists; when in
love, idealists.
When clouds appear like rocks and towers, / The earth's refreshed with frequent showers.
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks; / When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand.
When death comes, it is never our tenderness that we repent of, but our severity.
When desperate ills demand a speedy cure, distrust is cowardice and prudence folly.
When did friendship take / A breed for barren
metal of his friend?
When difficulties are overcome they become blessings.
When each comes forth from his mother's womb, the gate of gifts closes behind him.
When every one minds his own business the work is done.
When firmness is sufficient, rashness is unnecessary.
When fools fall out for every flaw, / They run
horn mad to go to law; / A hedge awry, a wrong plac'd gate, / Will serve to spend a whole estate.
When Fortune means to men most good, / She looks upon them with a threatening eye.
When found, make a note of.
When fresh sorrows have caused us to take some steps in the right way, we may not complain. We have invested in a life annuity, but the income remains.
When friends meet hearts warm.
When friendships are real, they are not glass
threads or frost-work, but the solidest things we know.
When God gives light he gives it for all.
When God will, no wind but brings rain.
When God would punish a land, he deprives its rulers of wisdom.
When Goethe says that in every human condition foes lie in wait for us, "invincible save by cheerfulness and equanimity," he does not mean that we can at all times be really cheerful, or at a moment's notice; but that the endeavour to look at the better side of things will produce the habit, and that this habit is the surest safeguard against the danger of sudden evils.
When Greeks joined Greeks, then was the
tug of war.
When griping grief the heart doth wound, / And doleful dumps the mind oppress, / Then music, with her silver sound, / With speedy help doth lend redress.
When half-gods go, / The gods arrive.
When he speaks, / The air, a charter'd libertine, is still.
When holy and devout religious men / Are at their beads, 'tis hard to draw them thence.
When I am angry, I can pray well and preach
well.
When I consider life, 'tis all a cheat. / Yet fool'd with hope, men favour the deceit; / Trust on, and think to-morrow will repay. / To-morrow's falser than the former day; / Lies worse, and while it says we shall be blest / With some new joys, cuts off what we possest.
When I have told the truth, my part with it is done; and if the world will not listen, the world will just do the other way.
When I hear music, I fear no danger. I am invulnerable. I see no foe. I am related to the earliest times and to the latest.
When I strove after wisdom I appeared foolish to fools, and wise when I lived like them. The fool only esteems himself wise.
When I want any good head-work done, I always choose a man, if suitable otherwise, with a long nose.
When I was happy I thought I knew men, but it was fated that I should know them in misfortune only.
When I wish to ascertain the real felicity of any rational man, I always inquire whom he has to love. If I find he has nobody, or does not love those he has, I pronounce him a being deep in adversity.
When I'm not thanked at all, I'm thank'd enough; / I've done my duty, and I've done no more.
When ilka ane gets his ain, the thief will get
the widdie
When in company, people will rather be entertained than instructed.
When, in your last hour (think of this), all faculty in the broken spirit shall fade away and sink into inanity--imagination, thought, effort, enjoyment--then will the flower of belief, which blossoms even in the night, remain to refresh you with its fragrance in the last darkness.
When industry builds upon nature, we may expect pyramids.
When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
When it rains porridge, the beggar has no
spoon.
When it's dark at Dover, / It is dark all the world over.
When labour is employed, labour can consume; when it is not employed, it cannot consume.
When love begins to sicken and decay / It useth an enforced ceremony.
When love cools our fauts are seen.
When love speaks, the voice of all the gods /
Makes heaven drowsy with the harmony.
When lovely woman stoops to folly / And finds, too late, that men betray, / What charm can soothe her melancholy? / What art can wash her guilt away?
When loving hearts are separated, not the one which is exhaled to heaven, but the survivor it is which tastes the sting of death.
When maidens sue, / Men give like gods.
When man arrives at his highest perfection, he will (as at the creation) be again dumb.
When man seized the loadstone of science,
the loadstar of superstition vanished in the clouds.
When matters are desperate, we must put on a desperate face.
When men add a new wing to their house they do not call the action virtue, but if they give to a fellow-creature for their own gratification, they demand of God a good mark for it.
When men are lonely they stoop to any companionship.
When men are pure, laws are useless; when men are corrupt, laws are broken.
When men grow virtuous in their old age,
they only make a sacrifice to God of the devil's leavings.
When monarch reason sleeps, this mimic wakes.
When money's taken, / Freedom's forsaken.
When musing on companions gone, / We doubly feel ourselves alone.
When nations are to perish in their sins, / 'Tis in the Church the leprosy begins; / The priest, whose office is, with zeal sincere, / To watch the fountain and preserve it clear, / Carelessly nods and sleeps upon the brink, / While others poison what the flock must drink.
When Nature fills the sails, the vessel goes
smoothly on; and when judgment is the pilot, the insurance need not be high.
When Nature is sovereign there is no need of austerity or self-denial.
When Nature removes a great man, people explore the horizon for a successor; but none comes, and none will.
When need is highest, help is nighest.
When neither he to whom we speak nor he who speaks to us understands, that is metaphysics.
When nothing is enjoyed, can there be greater
waste?
When on life we're tempest driven, / A conscience but a canker, / A correspondence fixed wi' heaven / Is sure a noble anchor.
When once a man is determined to believe, the very absurdity of the doctrine confirms him in his faith.
When once infidelity can persuade men that they shall die like beasts, they will soon be brought to live like beasts also.
When once our grace we have forgot, / Nothing goes right; we would, and we would not.
When once the young heart of a maiden is
stolen, / The maiden herself will steal after it soon.
When once you profess yourself a friend, endeavour to be always such. He can never have any true friends that will be often changing them.
When one does nothing else but while time away, it must of necessity often be a burden.
When one encourages the beautiful alone, and another encourages the useful alone, it takes them both to form a man.
When one is in love, one wishes to be in fetters.
When one is not received as one comes, this
is a nether-fire pain.
When one is truly in love, one not only says it, but shows it.
When one is young, one is nothing completely.
When one thinks of the real agony one has gone through in consequence of false teaching, it makes human nature angry with the teachers who have added to the bitterness of life.
When our actions do not, / Our fears do make us traitors.
When our hatred is too keen, it places us beneath those we hate.
When our names are blotted out, and our place knows us no more, the energy of each social service will remain.
When people complain of life, it is almost always because they have asked impossible things from it.
When people laugh at their own jokes, their
wit is very small beer, and is lost in its own froth.
When people once are in the wrong, / Each line they add is much too long.
When Peter's cock begins to crow, 'tis day.
When pleasure can be had, it is fit to catch it.
When pleasure is arrived, it is worthy of attention; when trouble presenteth itself, the same. Pain and pleasures have their revolutions like a wheel.
When poverty comes in at the door, love flies
out at the window.
When pride cometh, then cometh shame; but with the lowly is wisdom.
When remedies are past, the griefs are ended / By seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended.
When rich villains have need of poor ones, poor ones may make what price they will.
When rogues fall out, honest men get their own.
When shall we three meet again, in thunder,
lightning, or in rain?
When soldiers have been baptised in the fire of a battlefield, they have all one rank in my eyes.
When soon or late they reach that coast, / O'er life's rough ocean driven, / May they rejoice, no wanderer lost, / A family in heaven.
When sorrows come, they come not single spies, / But in battalions.
When speech is given to a soul holy and true, time and its dome of ages becomes as a mighty whispering-gallery, round which the imprisoned utterance runs, and reverberates forever.
When sun is set the little stars will shine.
When that the poor have cried, Cæsar hath wept; / Ambition should be made of sterner stuff.
When the affections are moved there is no place for the imagination.
When the artist forgets himself in admiration of his work, there is a fatal inversion and subversion of all art whatsoever; and for Love to worship Venus, his own creation, except as an index and light to himself, is in reality Love's apostasy, not his apotheosis.
When the ass is given thee, run and take him by the halter; and when good luck knocks at the door, let him in, and keep him there.
When the belly is empty, the body becomes
spirit; when it is full, the spirit becomes body.
When the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch; wherefore, in such circumstances, may it not sometimes be safer if both leader and led simply sit still?
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul / Lends the tongue vows.
When the cat's away, / The mice will play.
When the devil dies, he never lacks a chief mourner.
When the fight begins within himself, / A
man's worth something.
When the fox preaches, take care of your geese.
When the glede's in the blue cloud, / The laverock lies still; / When the hound's in the green wood, / The hind keeps the hill.
When the gods come among men, they are not known.
When the great God lets loose a thinker on this planet, then all things are at risk. There is not a piece of science, but its flank may be turned to-morrow; there is not any literary reputation, nor the so-called eternal names of fame, that may not be revised and condemned.
When the heart is afire, some sparks will fly
out at the mouth.
When the heart is heavy and low, / The beauty that on earth we find, / Or strain of music on the wind, / Shall touch it like an utter woe!
When the heart is still agitated by the remains of a passion, we are more ready to receive a new one than when we are entirely cured.
When the heart of a man is sincere and tranquil, he is fain to enjoy nothing but himself; every movement, even corporeal movement, shakes the brimming nectar cup too rudely.
When the hungry curate licks the knife, there is not much for the clerk.
When the man's fire and the wife's tow, in comes
the dell and blaws it in a lowe
When the master passeth over all alike without distinction, then the endeavours of those who are capable of exertion are entirely lost.
When the million applaud you, seriously ask yourself what harm you have done; when they censure you, what good.
When the mind's free, the body's delicate.
When the new light which we beg for shines in upon us, there be who envy and oppose, if it come not in first at their casements.
When the oak-tree is felled, the whole forest
echoes with it; but a hundred acorns are planted silently by some unnoticed breeze.
When the Phœnix is fanning her funeral pyre, will there not be sparks flying?
When the power of imparting joy / Is equal to the will, the human soul / Requires no other heaven.
When the quality of bravery is near, a great man's terrors are at a distance. In the hour of misfortune such a great man overcometh bravery.
When the reason of old establishments is gone, it is absurd to keep nothing but the burden of them. This is superstitiously to embalm a carcase not worth an ounce of the gums that are used to embalm it.
When the sheep is too meek, all the lambs suck it.
When the shore is won at last, / Who will count the billows past?
When the soul breathes through a man's intellect, it is genius; when it breaks through his will, it is virtue; when it flows through his affection, it is love.
When the strong box contains no more, ... /
Both friends and flatterers shun the door.
When the sun is highest, he casts the least shadow.
When the tale of bricks is doubled, then comes Moses.
When the weather been maist fair, the dust flies highest in the air.
When the will's ready the feet's licht.
When the wind
the echo
When the world has once got hold of a lie, it is astonishing how hard it is to get it out of the world. You beat it about the head, till it seems to have given up the ghost, and lo! the next day it is as healthy as ever.
When they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar, they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian.
When things are at their worst, they will mend.
When things are once come to the execution, there is no secrecy comparable to celerity, like the motion of a bullet in the air, which flieth so swift as it outruns the eye.
When thou dost purpose ought within thy
power, / Be sure to do it, though it be but small.
When thou hast thanked thy God for every blessing sent, / What time will then remain for murmurs or lament?
When thou makest presents, let them be of such things as will last long; to the end they may be in some sort immortal, and may frequently refresh the memory of the receiver.
When thou wishest to give thyself delight, think of the excellencies of those who live with thee; the energy of one, the modesty of another, the liberal kindness of a third.
When three know it, all know it.
When thy judgments are in the earth the inhabitants
of the world will learn righteousness.
When Time, who steals our years away, / Shall steal our pleasures too, / The mem'ry of the past will stay, / And half our joys renew.
When timorous knowledge stands considering, / Audacious ignorance hath done the deed.
When, to gratify a private appetite, it is once resolved upon that an innocent and a helpless creature shall be sacrificed, 'tis an easy matter to pick up sticks enough from any thicket where it has strayed to make a fire to offer it up with.
When two brethren strings are set alike, / To move them both but one of them we strike.
When two friends have a common purse, one
sings and the other weeps.
When two friends part, they should lock up one another's secrets and exchange their keys.
When two loving hearts are torn asunder, it is a shade better to be the one that is driven away into action, than the bereaved twin that petrifies at home.
When unadorn'd, adorn'd the most.
When was a god found agreeable to everybody?
When we are exalted by ideas, we do not owe
this to Plato, but to the idea, to which also Plato was debtor.
When we build
When we cannot get at the very thing we wish, never to take up with the next best in degree to it, that's pitiful beyond description.
When we can't do as we would, we must do as we can.
When we destroy an old prejudice, we have need of a new virtue.
When we discern justice, when we discern
truth, we do nothing of ourselves; we allow a passage to its beams.
When we have broken our god of tradition, and ceased from our god of rhetoric, then may God fire the heart with his presence.
When we have not what we love, we must love what we have.
When we meet with a natural style, we are surprised and delighted, for we expected to find an author, and we have found a man.
When we our betters see bearing our woes, / We scarcely think our miseries our foes.
When we rise in knowledge, as the prospect
widens, the objects of our regard become more obscure, and the unlettered peasant, whose views are only directed to the narrow sphere around him, beholds nature with a finer relish, and tastes her blessings with a keener appetite, than the philosopher whose mind attempts to grasp a universal system.
When we take people merely as they are, we make them worse; when we treat them as if they were what they should be, we improve them as far as they can be improved.
When whins are out of bloom, kissing is out of fashion.
When wine is in, nature comes out.
When words are scarce they're seldom spent in vain, / For they breathe truth that breathe their words in pain.
When words end, music begins; when they
suggest, it realises.
When worthy men fall out, only one of them may be faulty at the first; but if strife continue long, commonly both become guilty.
When you are all agreed upon the time, quoth the vicar, I'll make it rain.
When you are compelled to choose between two hated evils, look both full in the face, and choose that which least hampers the spirit and fetters pious deeds.
When you are down, poverty, like snowshoes, keeps your feet fast and prevents your rising.
When you are in doubt abstain.
When you are predetermined to take one
soul's advice, act without consulting further with any soul living.
When you are stung by slanderous tongues
comfort yourself with this thought: it is not the worst fruits that are gnawed by wasps.
When you cannot get dinner ready, put the clock back.
When you do not know what to do, it is a clear indication that you are to do nothing.
When you find yourselves tempted, be sure to ask advice; and when you see another so, deal with him gently.
When you go to Rome, do as Rome does.
When you grind your corn, give not the flour to the devil, and the bran to God.
When you have bought one fine thing, you must buy ten more to be all of a piece.
When you have got so much true knowledge as is worth fighting for, you are bound to fight or to die for it, but not to debate about it any more.
When you have nothing to say, say nothing.
When you hear that your neighbour has
picked up a purse of gold in the street, never run out into the same street, looking about you, in order to pick up such another.
When you introduce a moral lesson, let it be brief.
When you know a thing, to hold that you know it; and when you do not know a thing, to allow that you do not know it: this is knowledge.
When you leave the unimpaired hereditary freehold to your children, you do but half your duty. Both liberty and property are precarious, unless the possessors have sense and spirit enough to defend them.
When you lie down with a short prayer, commit yourself into the hands of your faithful Creator; and when you have done, trust Him with yourself as you must do when you are dying.
When you organise a strike, it is war you
organise; / But to organise our labour were the labour of the wise.
When you see a man with a great deal of religion displayed in his shop-window, you may depend upon it he keeps a very small stock of it within.
When you see a snake, never mind where he came from.
When you see a woman paint, your heart needna faint.
When your broth's ready-made for you, you mun swallow the thickenin', or else let the broth alone.
When your head did but ache, / I knit my
handkerchief about your brows, / The best I had; a princess wrought it me; / And I did never ask it you again.
Whence? O Heavens, whither? Sense knows not; faith knows not; only that it is through mystery to mystery, from God to God.
Whene'er a noble deed is wrought, / Whene'er is spoken a noble thought, / Our hearts, in glad surprise, / To higher levels rise.
Whenever a man talks loudly against religion, always suspect that it is not his reason, but his passions, which have got the better of his creed. A bad life and a good belief are disagreeable and troublesome neighbours; and when they separate, depend upon it, 'tis for no other cause but quietness' sake.
Whenever a separation is made between liberty and justice, neither is, in my opinion, safe.
Whenever I see a new-married couple more
than ordinarily fond before faces, I consider them as attempting to impose upon the company or themselves; either hating each other heartily, or consuming that stock of love in the beginning of their course which should serve them throughout their whole journey.
Whenever the offence inspires less horror than the punishment, the rigour of penal law is obliged to give way to the common feelings of mankind.
Whenever the people flock to see a miracle, it is a hundred to one but that they see a miracle.
Whenever you find humour, you find pathos close by its side.
Whensoever a man desireth anything inordinately, he is presently disquieted in himself.
Where content is there is a feast.
Where do we find ourselves? In a series of which we do not know the extremes, and believe that it has none.
Where drink goes in, wit goes out.
Where else is the God's presence manifested, not to our eyes only, but to our hearts, as in our fellow-men?
Where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work.
Where friends are in earnest, each day brings
its own gain, so that at last the year, when summed up, is of incalculable advantage. Details in reality constitute the life; results may be valuable, but they are more surprising than useful.
Where God gives, envy harms not; and where he gives not, no labour avails.
Where God has built a church, there the devil would also build a chapel.
Where God helps, nought harms.
Where have they who are running here and there in search of riches such happiness as those placid spirits enjoy who are gratified at the immortal fountain of happiness?
Where I am, there every one is.
Where idolatry ends, Christianity begins; and where idolatry begins, Christianity ends.
Where ignorance is bliss, / 'Tis folly to be wise.
Where is any author in the world / Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye?
Where is the good of having a right to make
both yourself and your neighbours miserable?... Mutual accommodation is the law of the world, or its inhabitants would all be wretched together.
Where is the man who has the power and skill / To stem the torrent of a woman's will? / For if she will she will, you may depend on't; / And if she won't, she won't, and there's an end on't.
Where it is weakest, the thread breaketh.
Where law ends, tyranny begins.
Where lies are easily admitted, the father of lies will not easily be excluded.
Where love reigns, disturbing jealousy doth
call himself affection's sentinel.
Where man is, are the tropics; where he is not, the ice-world.
Where Nature's end of language is declined, / And men talk only to conceal the mind.
Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellers there is safety.
Where no fault is, there needs no pardon.
Where no hope is left, is left no fear.
Where no oxen are, the crib is clean.
Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out: so where there is no tale-bearer, the strife ceaseth.
Where none thou canst discern, make for thyself a path.
Where once Truth's flame has burnt, I doubt / If ever it go fairly out.
Where one is wise, two are happy.
Where one man shapes his life by precept and example, there are a thousand who have it shaped for them by impulse and by circumstances.
Where one member suffers, all the members suffer with it.
Where peace / And rest can never dwell, hope never comes, / That comes to all.
Where people are tied for life, 'tis their mutual interest not to grow weary of one another.
Where power is absent we may find the robe
of genius, but we miss the throne.
Where secrecy or mystery begins, vice or roguery is not far off.
Where shame is, there is fear.
Where the carcase is, the ravens will gather.
Where the devil cannot come, he will send.
Where the devil has smoothed your road, /
Keep to the right like an honest man.
Where the greater malady is fix'd, / The lesser is scarce felt.
Where the heart goes before, like a lamp, and illumines the pathway, many things are made clear that else lie hidden in darkness.
Where the heart is, there the Muses, there the gods sojourn.
Where the meekness of self-knowledge veileth the front of self-respect, there look thou for the man whose name none can know but they will honour.
Where there is a mother in the home, matters
speed well.
Where there is a splashing of dirt, it is good not to meddle and to keep far away.
Where there is much light there is a darker shadow.
Where there is music, nothing really bad can be.
Where there is mystery, it is generally supposed that there must also be evil.
Where there is no envy in the case, our propensity
to sympathise with joy is much stronger than our propensity to sympathise with sorrow.
Where there is no hook, to be sure there will hang no bacon.
Where there is no hope, there can be no endeavour.
Where there is no law, there is no transgression.
Where there is no love, all are faults.
Where there is no shame, there is no honour.
Where there is no sympathy with the spirit of man, there can be no sympathy with any higher spirit.
Where there is smoke there is fire.
Where there is too much light, our senses don't perceive; they are only stunned or dazzled or blinded.
Where there's a will there's a way.
Where there's muckle courtesy there's little
kindness.
Where truth is not at the bottom, Nature will always be endeavouring to return, and will peep out and betray herself one time or other.
Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.
Where vice is, vengeance follows.
Where virtue dwells, the gods have placed before / The dropping sweat that springs from every pore, / And ere the feet can reach her bright abode, / Long, rugged, steep the ascent, and rough the road.
Where we find echoes, we generally find
emptiness and hollowness; it is the contrary with the echoes of the heart.
Where wealth and freedom reign, contentment fails, / And honour sinks where commerce long prevails.
Where wilt thou go that thou wilt not have to plough?
Where Wisdom steers, wind cannot make you sink.
Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain.
Where would be what silly people call Progress if not for the grumblers?
Where you see your friend, trust to yourself.
Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Where your will is ready, your feet are light.
Where's the use of a woman's having brains of her own if she's tackled to a geck as everybody's a-laughing at?
Whereas Johnson only bowed to every clergyman, I would bow to every man, were it not there is a devil dwells in man as well as a divinity, and too often the bow is but pocketed by the former.
Where'er I wander, boast of this I can, / Though banished, yet a true-born Englishman.
Where'er we tread, 'tis haunted, holy ground.
Wherever a man dwells he will be sure to
have a thorn-bush near his door.
Wherever a true woman comes, home is always around her. The stars may be over her head, the glow-worms in the night-cold grass may be the fire at her feet; but home is where she is; and for a noble woman it stretches far around her, better than houses ceiled with cedar or painted with vermilion, shedding its quiet light far for those who else are homeless.
Wherever in the world I am, / In whatsoe'er estate, / I have a fellowship with hearts / To keep and cultivate.
Wherever nature does least, man does most.
Wherever snow falls, there is usually civil freedom.
Wherever the devil makes a purchase, he
never fails to set his mark.
Wherever the health of the citizens is concerned, much more where their souls' health, and as it were their salvation, is concerned, all governments that are not chimerical make haste to interfere.
Wherever the speech is corrupted the mind is also.
Wherever the tree of beneficence takes root, it sends forth branches beyond the sky.
Wherever there is a parliament, there must of necessity be an opposition.
Wherever there is a sky above him and a
world around him, the poet is in his place; for here too is man's existence, with its infinite longings and small acquirings; its ever-thwarted, ever-renewed endeavours; its unspeakable aspirations, its fears and hopes that wander through eternity; and all the mystery of brightness and of gloom that it was ever made of, in any age or climate, since man first began to live.
Wherever there is authority, there is a natural inclination to disobedience.
Wherever there is cupidity, there the blessing of the Gospel cannot rest. The actual poor, therefore, may altogether fail to be objects of that blessing, the actual rich may be the objects of it in the highest degree.
Wherever there is power there is age.
Wherever there is war, there must be injustice on one side or the other, or on both.
Wherever women are honoured, the gods are
satisfied.
Wherever work is done, victory is obtained.
Wherever you see a gaming-table, be very sure Fortune is not there.... She is ever seen accompanying industry, and as often trundling a wheelbarrow as lolling in a coach and six.
Wherever your lot is cast, duty to yourself and others suggests the propriety of adapting your conduct to the circumstances in which you are placed.
Wherefore ever ramble on? / For the good is lying near. / Fortune learn to seize alone, / For that Fortune's ever here.
Wherefore waste I time to counsel thee / That
art a votary to fond desire?
Wherein does barbarism consist, unless in not appreciating what is excellent?
Wheresoever a man seeketh his own, there he falleth from love.
Wheresoever the carcass is, there will the eagles be gathered together.
Wheresoever the search after truth begins, there life begins; wheresoever the search ceases, there life ceases.
Wheresoever two or three living men are
gathered together, there is society; or there it will be, with its mechanisms and structures, over-spreading this little globe, and reaching upwards to Heaven and downwards to Gehenna.
Whereto serves mercy, / But to confront the visage of offence? / And what's in prayer, but this twofold force,--to be forestalled ere we come to fall, / Or pardon'd, being down? Then I'll look up.
Whether a child, or an old man, or a youth, be come to thy house, he is to be treated with respect; for of all men, thy guest is the superior.
Whether a revolution succeeds or fails, men of great hearts will always be sacrificed to it.
 (a man)
Whether he be rich or whether he be poor, if times rejoice in a cheerful countenance; his mind shall tell him more than seven watchmen that sit above upon a tower on high.
Whether it be for life or death, do your own
work well.
Whether one show one's self a man of genius in science or compose a song, the only point is, whether the thought, the discovery, the deed, is living and can live on.
Whether religion be true or false, it must be necessarily granted to be the only wise principle and safe hypothesis for a man to live and die by.
Whether the pitcher strike the stone or the stone the pitcher, it is bad for the pitcher.
Whether you boil snow or pound it, you can have but water of it.
Which death is preferable to every other? "The unexpected."
Which highest mortal, in this inane existence, had I not found a shadow-hunter or shadow-hunted; and, when I looked through his brave garnitures, miserable enough?
Which is the great secret? The open secret
Which is the lightest in the scale of Fate? / That where fond Cupid still is adding weight.
Which of all the philosophies think you will stand? / I know not, but philosophy itself, I hope will continue with us for ever.
Which of your philosophical systems is other than a dream-theorem; a net quotient, confidently given out, where divisor and dividend are both unknown?
Which way I fly is hell; myself am hell; / And in the lowest deep a lower deep, / Still threat'ning to devour me, opens wide, / To which the hell I suffer seems a heaven.
Whichever you do, you will regret it.
While a man gets he never can lose.
While conscience is our friend, all is peace; but if once offended, farewell the tranquil mind.
While craving justice for ourselves, it is never wise to be unjust to others.
While digestion lasts, life cannot, in philosophical language, be said to be extinct.
While grief is fresh, every attempt to divert
only irritates. You must wait till grief be digested, and then amusement will dissipate the remains of it.
While manufacture is the work of hands only, art is the work of the whole spirit of man; and as that spirit is, so is the deed of it.
While men sleep, / Sad-hearted mothers heave, that wakeful lie, / To muse upon some darling child / Roaming in youth's uncertain wild.
While mistakes are increasing, like population, at the rate of twelve hundred a-day, the benefit of seizing one and throttling it would be perfectly inconsiderable.
While others tippled, Sam from drinking shrunk, / Which made the rest think Sam alone was drunk.
While the serpent sheds its old skin, the new
is already formed beneath.
While there is hope left, let not the weakness of sorrow make the strength of resolution languish.
While thy shoe is on thy foot, tread upon the thorns.
While we are indifferent to our good qualities, we keep on deceiving ourselves in regard to our faults, until we come to look upon them as virtues.
While we are reasoning concerning life, life is gone.
While we think to revenge an injury, we many
times begin one, and after that repent our misconceptions.
While you live, tell truth and shame the devil.
Whilst a man confideth in Providence, he should not slacken his own exertions; for without labour he is unworthy to obtain the oil from the seed.
Whilst lions war and battle for their dens, / Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity.
Whilst we converse with what is above us, we do not grow old, but grow young.
Whining lover may as well request / A scornful
breast / To melt in gentle tears, as woo the world for rest.
Whistle, and I'll come to ye, my lad.
Whistling aloud to bear his courage up.
White lies always introduce others of a darker complexion.
Who are wise in love, love most, say least.
Who ascends to mountain-tops, shall find /
The loftiest peaks most wrapt in clouds and snow.
Who, born for the universe, narrow'd his mind, / And to party gave up what was meant for mankind; / Though fraught with all learning, yet straining his throat / To persuade Tommy Townshend to lend him a vote.
Who bravely dares most sometimes risk a fall.
Who breaks his own bond, forfeiteth himself.
Who breathes must suffer, and who thinks must mourn; / And he alone is bless'd who ne'er was born.
Who builds a church to God and not to fame, /
Will never mark the marble with his name.
Who but the poet was it that first formed gods for us; that exalted us to them, and brought them down to us?
Who buys a minute's mirth to wail a week? / Or sells eternity to get a toy?
Who by repentance is not satisfied / Is not of heaven, nor earth.
Who can be patient in extremes?
Who can compute what the world loses in the
multitude of promising intellects combined with timid characters, who dare not follow out any bold, vigorous, independent train of thought, lest it should land them in something which would admit of being considered irreligious or immoral?
Who can direct when all pretend to know?
Who can do nothing of sovran worth / Which men shall praise, a higher task may find, / Plodding his dull round on the common earth, / But conquering envies rising in the mind.
Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil, all the days of her life. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed.
Who can heal the woes of him to whom balm has become poison, who has imbibed hatred of mankind from the fulness of love?
Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?
Who cannot rest till he good fellows find, / He breaks up house, turns out of doors his mind.
Who chatters to you, will chatter of you.
Who coldly lives to himself and his own will may gratify many a wish; but he who strives to guide others well must be able to dispense with much.
Who combats bravely is not therefore brave, / He dreads a death-bed like the meanest slave; / Who reasons wisely is not therefore wise,--/ His pride in reasoning, not in acting lies.
Who could pin down a shadow to the ground, / And take its measure?
Who digs a pit for others falls into it himself.
Who does not act is dead; absorpt entire / In
miry sloth, no pride, no joy he hath: / O leaden-hearted men, to be in love with death!
Who does not help us at the needful moment never helps; who does not counsel at the needful moment never counsels.
Who does not in his friends behold the world, / Deserves not that the world should hear of him.
Who does the best his circumstance allows, / Does well, does nobly; angels could no more.
Who doth not work shall not eat.
Who ever loved that loved not at first sight?
Who fastest walks, but walks astray, / Is only farthest from his way.
Who fears death forfeits life.
Who fears to do ill sets himself a task; / Who fears to do well sure should wear a mask.
Who feels injustice, who shrinks before a slight, who has a sense of wrong so acute, and so glowing a gratitude for kindness, as a generous boy?
Who firmly can resolve, he conquers grief.
Who follows all things forfeiteth his will.
Who forces himself on others is to himself a load. Impetuous curiosity is empty and inconstant. Prying intrusion may be suspected of whatever is little.
Who gets by play proves loser in the end.
Who gives a trifle meanly is meaner than the trifle.
Who gives the lilies clothing, / Will clothe his
people too.
Who goes a-borrowing, goes a-sorrowing.
Who had hoped for triumph, but who was prepared for sacrifice.
Who has a daring eye tells downright truths and downright lies.
Who has a head will not want a hat.
Who has not felt how sadly sweet / The dream
of home, the dream of home, / Steals o'er the heart, too soon to fleet, / When far o'er sea or land we roam? / Sunlight more soft may o'er us fall, / To greener shores our bark may come; / But far more bright, more dear than all, / That dream of home, that dream of home.
Who hath a greater combat than he that laboureth to overcome himself?
Who hath not known ill fortune never knew himself or his own virtue.
Who here with life would sport, / In life shall prosper never; / And he who ne'er will rule himself, / A slave shall be for ever.
Who, in the midst of just provocation to anger, instantly finds the fit word which settles all around him in silence, is more than wise or just; he is, were he a beggar, of more than royal blood--he is of celestial descent.
Who in want a hollow friend doth try, /
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Who is a stranger to those who have the habit of speaking kindly.
Who is sure he hath a soul, unless / It see and judge, and follow worthiness, / And by deeds praise it? He who doth not this / May lodge an inmate soul, but 'tis not his.
Who is sure of his own motives can with confidence advance or retreat.
Who is the best captain of a ship? The grumbler and the man of discipline, who will have things as they ought to be, even though he lose every sailor serving under him by his severity.
Who is the best general? The grumbler who
insists upon having everything in mathematical order, and who has not the smallest drop of the milk of human kindness about him, whenever it is a question of duty or efficiency.
Who is the happiest man? He who is alive to the merit of others, and can rejoice in their enjoyment as if it were his own.
Who is the most sensible man? He who finds what is to his own advantage in all that happens to him.
Who is there almost, whose mind at some time or other, love or anger, fear or grief, has not so fastened to some clog that it could not turn itself to any other object?
Who is there that can clutch into the wheel-spokes of destiny, and say to the spirit of the time: Turn back, I command thee? Wiser were it that we yielded to the inevitable and inexorable, and accounted even this the best.
Who is't can say, I'm at the worst? / I'm worse than ere I was, / And worse I may be yet; the worst is not, / So long as we can say, / This is the worst.
Who judgeth well, well God them send; / Who judgeth evil, God them amend.
Who keeps no guard upon himself is slack, / And rots to nothing at the next great thaw.
Who kills a man kills a reasonable creature, but he who kills a good book kills reason itself.
Who knows art half, speaks much and is always
wrong; who knows it wholly, inclines to act, and speaks seldom or late.
Who knows not that truth is strong, next to the Almighty? She needs no politics, nor stratagems, nor licensings to make her victorious; those are the shifts and the defences that error uses against her power; give her but room and do not bind her when she sleeps.
Who knows the mind has the key to all things else.
Who knows what Love is, may not sup / On that which is not still divine.
Who leaves all receives more.
Who looks not before finds himself behind.
Who loves his own sweet shadow in the streets / Better than e'er the fairest she he meets.
Who loves me, loves my dog.
Who loves, raves.
Who made the heart, 'tis He alone / Decidedly can try us; / He knows each chord, its various tone, / Each spring, its various bias. / Then at the balance let's be mute, / We never can adjust it; / What's done we partly may compute, / But know not what's resisted.
Who make poor "will do" wait upon "I
should;" / We own they're prudent, but who owns they're good?
Who marks in church-time others' symmetry, / Makes all their beauty his deformity.
Who never climbs will never fa'.
Who never doubted never half believed.
Who overcomes / By force, hath overcome But half his foe.
Who pants for glory finds but short repose; /
A breath revives him or a breath o'erthrows.
Who plays for more / Than he can lose with pleasure, stakes his heart.
Who questioneth much, shall learn much, and content much.
Who riseth from a feast / With that keen appetite that he sits down? / Where is the horse that doth untread again / His tedious measures with the unabated fire / That he did pace them first? All things that are / Are with more spirit chaséd than enjoy'd.
Who say, I care not, those I give for lost; / And to instruct them, 'twill not quit the cost.
Who seeks Him in the dark and cold, / With
heart that elsewhere finds no rest, / Some fringe of the skirts of God shall hold, / Though round his spirit the mists may fold, / With eerie shadows and fears untold.
Who shall be true to us, / When we are so unsecret to ourselves?
Who shall decide when doctors disagree, / And soundest casuists doubt, like you and me.
Who shall place / A limit to the giant's unchained strength, / Or curb his swiftness in the forward race?
Who shall say that Fortune grieves him, / While the star of hope she leaves him?
Who should be trusted when one's right
hand / Is perjured to the bosom?
Who shuts love out shall be shut out from love.
Who so firm that cannot be seduced?
Who so unworthy but may proudly deck him / With his fair-weather virtue, that exults / Glad o'er the summer main? The tempest comes, / The rough winds rage aloud; when from the helm / This virtue shrinks, and in a corner lies / Lamenting.
Who soars too near the sun with golden wings melts them.
Who speaks to the instincts speaks to the
deepest in man, and finds the readiest response.
Who spouts his message to the wilderness, / Lightens his soul and feels one burden less; / But to the people preach, and you will find / They'll pay you back with thanks ill to your mind.
Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing; / 'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; / But he that filches from me my good name, / Robs me of that which not enriches him, / And makes me poor indeed.
Who surpasses or subdues mankind / Must look down on the hate of those below.
Who the race of men doth love, / Loves also him above.
Who to dumb forgetfulness a prey, / This
pleasing anxious being e'er resign'd; / Left the warm precincts of the cheerful day, / Nor cast one longing ling'ring look behind?
Who track the steps of glory to the grave.
Who trusts in God fears not his rod.
Who values a good night's rest will not lie down with enmity in his heart if he can help it.
Who values that anger which is consumed only in empty menaces?
Who walks through fire will hardly heed the
smoke.
Who watches not catches not.
"Who will guard the guards?" says a Latin verse,--"Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?" I answer, "The enemy." It is the enemy who keeps the sentinel watchful.
Who will not mercy unto others show, / How can he mercy ever hope to have?
Who would bear the whips and scorns of time, / The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely, / The pangs of despised love, the law's delay, / The insolence of office and the spurns / That patient merit of the unworthy takes, / When he himself might his quietus make / With a bare bodkin?
Who would check the happy feeling / That inspires the linnet's song? / Who would stop the swallow wheeling / On her pinions swift and strong?
Who would fardels bear, / To grunt and sweat under a weary life, / But that the dread of something after death, / The undiscover'd country from whose bourn / No traveller returns, puzzles the will, / And makes us rather bear those ills we have / Than fly to others that we know not of?
Whoever acquires knowledge but does not
practise it, is as one who ploughs but does not sow.
Whoever aims at doing or enjoying all and everything with his entire nature, whoever tries to link together all that is without him by such a species of enjoyment will only lose his time in efforts that can never be successful.
Whoever can administer what he possesses, has enough, and to be wealthy is a burdensome affair, unless you understand it.
Whoever can discern truth has received his commission from a higher source than the chiefest judge in the world, who can discern only law.
Whoever can make two ears of corn or two blades of grass grow where only one grew before, deserves better of mankind, and does more service to his country, than the whole race of politicians put together.
Whoever can turn his weeping eyes to heaven
has lost nothing, for there above is everything he can wish for here below. He only is a loser who persists in looking down on the narrow plains of the present time.
Whoever converses much among old books will be hard to please among new.
Whoever despises mankind will never get the best out of others or himself.
Whoever does not respect confidence will never find happiness in his path.
Whoever fights, whoever falls, / Justice conquers evermore.
Whoever gives himself to this
soon comes to be indifferent towards God, contemptuous towards the world, spiteful towards his equals; and the true, genuine indispensable sentiment of self-estimation corrupts into self-conceit and presumption.
Whoever has lived twenty years ought to know how to order himself without physic.
Whoever has no fixed opinions has no constant feelings.
Whoever has seen the masked at a ball dance amicably together, and take hold of hands without knowing each other, leaving the next moment to meet no more, can form an idea of the world.
Whoever has sixpence is sovereign over all men--to the extent of the sixpence; commands cooks to feed him, philosophers to teach him, kings to mount guard over him--to the extent of sixpence.
Whoever has so far formed his taste as to be
able to relish and feel the beauties of the great masters, has gone a great way in his study.
Whoever is a genuine follower of truth, keeps his eye steady upon his guide, indifferent whither he is lead, provided that she is the leader.
Whoever is in a hurry shows that the thing he is about is too big for him. Haste and hurry are very different things.
Whoever is king, is also the father of his country.
Whoever is out of patience is out of possession of his soul.
Whoever may / Discern true ends will grow
pure enough / To love them, brave enough to strive for them, / And strong enough to reach them, though the road be rough.
Whoever perseveres will be crowned.
Whoever serves his country well has no need of ancestors.
Whoever sinks his vessel by overloading it, though it be with gold, and silver, and precious stones, will give his owner but an ill account of his voyage.
Whoever thinks a faultless piece to see, / Thinks what ne'er was, nor is, nor e'er shall be.
Whoever will thrust Magdalen into the pit
will find that he has dropped with her into the flames the key that should have opened heaven for him, and assuredly shall he remain outside until she, her purification completed, shall take pity on him and bring it thence.
Whoever wishes to attain an English style, familiar but not coarse, and elegant but not ostentatious, must give his days and nights to the volumes of Addison.
Whoever wishes to keep a secret must hide from us that he possesses one.
Whoever would persuade men to religion both with art and efficacy, must found the persuasion of it upon this, that it interferes not with any rational pleasure, that it bids nobody quit the enjoyment of any one thing that his reason can prove to him ought to be enjoyed.
Whole, half, and quarter mistakes are very difficult and troublesome to correct and sift, and it is hard to set what is true in them in its proper place.
Wholesome berries thrive and ripen best, /
Neighbour'd by fruit of baser quality.
Wholly a man of action, with speech subservient thereto.
Whom God teaches not, man cannot.
Whom Heaven has made a slave, no parliament of men, nor power that exists on earth, can render free.
"Whom the gods love die young," was said of yore.
Whom the grandeur of his office elevates over other men will soon find that the first hour of his new dignity is the last of his independence.
Whom the heart of man shuts out, straightway the heart of God takes in.
Whom well inspir'd the oracle pronounced / Wisest of men.
Whose faith has centre everywhere, / Nor cares to fix itself to form.
Whoso believes, let him begin to fulfil.
Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind without rain.
Whoso can look on death will start at no shadows.
Whoso can speak well is a man.
Whoso cannot obey cannot be free, still less bear rule; he that is the inferior of nothing, can be the superior of nothing, the equal of nothing.
Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his
lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness.
Whoso devours the substance of the poor will at length find in it a bone to choke him.
Whoso does not good, does evil enough.
Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour of the Lord.
Whoso hath love in his heart hath spurs in his sides.
Whoso findeth me
shall obtain favour of the Lord.
Whoso hath skill in this art
Whoso is not a misanthropist at forty can never have loved his kind.
Whoso keepeth the fig-tree shall eat the fruit thereof; so he that waiteth on his master shall be honoured.
Whoso lives for humanity must be content to lose himself.
Whoso mocketh the poor reproacheth his
Maker; and he that is glad at calamities shall not be unpunished.
Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.
Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith, It is no transgression, the same is the companion of a destroyer.
Whoso serves the public is a poor creature
he worries himself, and no one is grateful to him for his services.
Whoso should combine the intrepid candour and decisive scientific clearness of Hume with the reverence, the love, and devout humility of Johnson, were the whole man of a new time.
Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the
poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard.
Whoso trusteth in the Lord, happy is he.
Whoso, without poetic frenzy, knocks at the doors of the Muses, presuming that his art alone will suffice to make him a poet, both he and his poetry are hopelessly thrown away.
Whoso would find God must bring him with him; thou seest him in things outside of thee, only when he is within thee.
Whoso would work aright must not concern himself about what is ill done, but only do well himself.
Whoso would write clearly must think clearly,
and if he would write in a noble style, he must first possess a noble soul.
Whosoever and whatsoever introduces itself and appears, in the firm earth of human business, or, as we well say, comes into existence, must proceed from the world of the supernatural; whatsoever of a material sort deceases and disappears might be expected to go thither.
Whosoever forsaketh not all that he hath, cannot be my disciple.
Whosoever has not seized the whole cannot yet speak truly (much less musically, concordantly) of any part.
Whosoever hath not patience, neither doth be possess philosophy.
Whosoever hath his mind fraught with many
thoughts, his wits and understanding do clarify and break up, in the communicating and discoursing with another. He tosseth his thoughts more easily, he marshalleth them more orderly, he seeth how they look when they are turned into words; finally, he waxeth wiser than himself.
Whosoever, in the frame of his nature and affections, is unfit for friendship, he taketh it of the beast, and not from humanity.
"Whosoever quarrels with his fate, does not understand it," says Bettine; and among all her inspired sayings, she spoke none wiser.
Whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.
Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.
Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of
God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.
Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your servant.
Whosoever will save his life shall lose it; and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.
Why, all the souls that were, were forfeit once; / And He that might the vantage best have took / Found out the remedy. How would you be / If He, which is the top of judgment, should / But judge you as you are?
Why am I loth to leave this earthly scene? / Have I so found it full of pleasing charms? / Some drops of joy with draughts of ill between; / Some gleams of sunshine 'mid renewing storms.
Why are taste
seldom willing to unite? The former is shy of power, the latter scorns restraint.
Why complain of wanting light? It is courage, energy, perseverance that I want.
Why do we discover faults so much more readily than perfections?
Why do we pray to Heaven without setting our own shoulder to the wheel?
Why does it signify to us what they think of us after death, when our being has become only an empty sound?
Why does that hyssop grow there in the chink of the wall? Because the whole universe, sufficiently occupied otherwise, could not hitherto prevent its growing. It has the might and the right.
Why don't the men propose, mamma? / Why
don't the men propose?
Why dost thou try to find / Where charity doth flow? / Upon the waters cast thy bread, / Who eats it, who may know?
Why has not man a microscopic eye? / For this plain reason--man is not a fly.
Why insist, ye heroes, against the will of Jupiter, in pressing a Hercules into your enterprise? Know ye not that for him there is quite other work appointed, which he must do all alone, and not another with him?
Why is it that Love must so often sigh in vain for an object, and Hate never?
Why is it that we can better bear to part in
spirit than in body, and, while we have the fortitude to act farewell, have not the nerve to say it?
Why is there no man who confesses his vices? It is because he has not yet laid them aside. It is a waking man only who can tell his dreams.
Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world / Like a Colossus, and we petty men / Walk under his huge legs and peep about / To find ourselves dishonourable graves.
Why, nothing comes amiss, so money comes withal.
Why rather, sleep, liest thou in smoky cribs, / Upon uneasy pallets stretching thee, / And hush'd with buzzing night-flies to thy slumber, / Than in the perfumed chambers of the great, / Under the canopies of costly state, / And lull'd with sounds of sweetest melody?
Why seek at once to dive into / The depth of
all that meets your view? / Wait for the melting of the snow, / And then you'll see what lies below.
Why should a man, whose blood is warm within, / Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster?
"Why should calamity be full of words?" / "Let them have scope; though what they do impart / Help not at all, yet do they ease the heart."
Why should honour outlive honesty?
Why should I make a shadow where God makes all so bright?
Why should not conscience have vacation /
As well as other courts o' th' nation?
Why should the Garment of Praise destroy the Spirit of Heaviness? Because an old woman cannot sing and cry at the same moment ... one emotion destroys another.
Why should the poor be flatter'd? / No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp, / And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee, / Where thrift may follow fawning.
Why should thy satisfaction be placed upon a thing which makes thee not one whit the better or the worse?
Why should we crave a hallow'd spot? / An altar is in each man's cot, / A church in every grove that spreads / Its living roof above our heads.
Why should we faint and fear to live alone, /
Since all alone, so Heaven has willed, we die, / Nor even the tenderest heart, and next our own, / Knows half the reasons why we smile or sigh?
Why should we go a-jaunting when the heart wants to repose.
Why should we have any serious disgust at kitchens? Perhaps they are the holiest recesses of the house. There is the hearth, after all,--and the settle, and the fagots, and the kettle, and the crickets. They are the heart, the left ventricle, the very vital part of the house.
Why so large cost, having so short a lease, / Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend?
Why such heat
nonsense, quite equal to it, will be almost sure to follow.
Why tell me that a man is a fine speaker if it
is not the truth that he is speaking? If an eloquent speaker is not speaking the truth, is there a more horrid kind of object in creation?
Why, then, the world's mine oyster, / Which I with sword will open.
Why, universal plodding prisons up / The nimble spirits in the arteries, / As motion and long-during action tires / The sinewy vigour of the traveller.
Why, what should be the fear? / I do not set my life at a pin's fee; / And for my soul, what can it do to that, / Being a thing immortal as itself?
Wicked thoughts and worthless efforts gradually set their mark upon the face, especially the eyes.
Wickedness is its own punishment.
Wickedness is voluntary frenzy, and every sinner does more extravagant things than any man that is crazed and out of his wits, only that he knows better what he does.
Wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction.
Wide our world displays its worth, man's strife and strife's success, / All the good and beauty, wonder crowning wonder, / Till my heart and soul applaud perfection, nothing less.
Wide will wear, but tight will tear.
Wie alles sich zum Ganzen webt / Eins in
dem andern wirkt und lebt!
Wie bitter sind der Trennung Leiden!
Wie das Auge, hat das Herz / Seine Sprache ohne Worte
Wie das Gestirn, / Ohne Hast, / Aber ohne Rast, / Drehe sich jeder / Um die eigne Last
Wie der alte verbrennt, steigt der neue sogleich wieder aus der Asche hervor
Wie der Sternenhimmel still und bewegt
Wie die Alten sungen, so zwitschern auch die
Jungen
Wie die Blumen die Erd', und die Sterne den Himmel / Zieren, so zieret Athen Hellas und Hellas die Welt
Wie ein Pfeil nach seinem Ziele fliegt des braven Mannes Wort
Wie eng-gebunden des Weibes Glück!
Wie fruchtbar ist der kleinste Kreis, / Wenn man ihn wohl zu pflegen weiss!
Wie gewonnen, so zerronnen
Wie ist das Menschenherz so klein! / Und doch auch da zieht Gott herein
Wie schränkt sich Welt und Himmel ein, / Wenn unser Herz in seinen Schranken banget!
Wie? Wann? und Wo? Die Götter bleiben stumm. / Du halte dich ans Weil, und frage nicht Warum?
Wild ambition loves to slide, not stand; / And Fortune's ice prefers to Virtue's land.
Wilful waste makes woeful want.
Will a courser of the sun work softly in the harness of a dray-horse? His hoofs are of fire, and his path is through the heavens, bringing light to all lands; will he lumber on mud highways, dragging ale for earthly appetites from door to door?
Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood / Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather / The multitudinous seas incarnadine, / Making the green one red.
Will is deaf, and hears no heedful friends.
Will it, and set to work briskly.
Will localises us; thought universalises us.
Will minus intellect constitutes vulgarity.
"Will-to-do," which is the spirit of the true God, is eternally incompatible with "wish-to-have," which is the proper spirit of the false.
Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike, / Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike.
Willows are weak, yet they bind other wood.
Willst du den Dichter verstehen, so lerne wie
Dichter empfinden
Willst du dich am Ganzen erquicken, / So musst du das Ganze im Kleinsten erblicken
Willst du immer weiter schweifen? / Sieh, das Gute liegt so nah! / Lerne nur das Glück ergreifen, / Denn das Glück ist immer da
Willst du in's Unendliche schreiten, / Geh' nur im Endliche nach allen Seiten
Willst du leben, musst du dienen; willst du frei sein, musst du sterben
Willst du mit Kinderhänden / In des Schicksals
Speichen greifen? / Seines Donnerwagens Lauf / Hält kein sterblich Wesen auf
Willst lustig leben, geh' mit zwei Säcken, / Einen zu geben, einen um einzustecken
Wilt thou draw near the nature of the gods? Draw near them, then, in being merciful.
Wilt thou know a man, above all a mankind, by stringing together beadrolls of what thou namest facts? The man is the spirit he worked in; not what he did, but what he became.
Wilt thou know thyself, see how others do; wilt thou understand others, look into thine own heart.
"Win hearts," said Burleigh to Queen Elizabeth,
"and you have all men's hearts and purses."
Wine and youth are fire upon fire.
Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging: and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise.
Wine is a turncoat; first a friend and then an enemy.
Wine neither keeps secrets nor fulfils promises.
Wine washes off the daub.
Wings have we--and as far as we can go, / We may find pleasure: wilderness and wood, / Blank ocean and mere sky, support that mood / Which with the lofty, sanctifies the low.
Wink at small faults.
Wir Menschen sind ja alle Brüder
Wisdom alone is a science of other sciences and of itself.
Wisdom and Fortune combating together, / If that the former dare but what he can, / No chance may shake it.
Wisdom and knowledge shall be the stability of thy times.
Wisdom becomes nonsense
Wisdom begins at the end.
Wisdom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth
darkness.
Wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence: but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth life to them that have it.
Wisdom is a pearl; with most success / Sought in still water and beneath clear skies.
Wisdom is intrinsically of a silent nature; it cannot at once, or completely at all, be read off in words, and is only legible in whole when its work is done.
Wisdom is justified of her children.
Wisdom is not found with those who dwell at
their ease; rather Nature, when she adds brain, adds difficulty.
Wisdom is ofttimes nearer when we stoop than when we soar.
Wisdom is only in truth.
Wisdom is that attribute through which every action of a man receives its ideal value or import
Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding.
Wisdom is too high for a fool.
Wisdom makes a slow defence against trouble, though at last a sure one.
Wisdom may be the ultimate arbiter, but is seldom the immediate agent in human affairs.
Wisdom may sometimes wear a look austere, / But smiles and jests are oft her helpmates here.
Wisdom not only gets, but, got, retains.
Wisdom picks friends; civility plays the rest. /
A toy shunn'd cleanly passeth with the best.
Wisdom resteth in the heart of him that hath understanding.
Wisdom sends us to childhood; "unless ye become as little children."
Wisdom sits with children round her knees.
Wisdom sometimes walks in clouted shoes.
Wisdom that is hid, and treasure that is
hoarded up, what profit is in them both?
Wisdom, which represents the marriage of truth and virtue, is by no means synonymous with gravity. She is L'Allegro as well as Il Penseroso, and jests as well as preaches.
Wisdom will out; it is the one thing in this world that cannot be suppressed or annulled.
Wisdom's a trimmer thing than shop e'er gave.
Wisdom's path is steep; but, gained the height, / The Muse's gifts will fill you with delight.
Wise above that which is written.
Wise, cultivated, genial conversation is the best flower of civilisation, and the best result which life has to offer us--a cup for gods, which has no repentance. Conversation is our account of ourselves. All we have, all we can, all we know is brought into play, and as the reproduction, in finer form, of all our havings.
Wise is the man prepared for either end, / Who in due measure can both spare and spend.
Wise kings have generally wise councillors, as he must be a wise man himself who is capable of distinguishing one.
Wise men are instructed by reason; men of less understanding, by experience; the most ignorant, by necessity; and beasts, by nature.
Wise men are not wise at all hours, and will
speak five times from their taste or their humour to one from their reason.
Wise men are wise but not prudent, in that they know nothing of what is for their own advantage, but know surpassing things, marvellous things, difficult things, and divine things.
Wise men argue causes, and fools decide them.
Wise men, for the most part, are silent at present, and good men powerless; the senseless vociferate, and the heartless govern; while all social law and providence are dissolved by the enraged agitation of a multitude, among whom every villain has a chance of power, every simpleton of praise, and every scoundrel of fortune.
Wise men mingle mirth with their cares, as a help either to forget or overcome them; but to resort to intoxication for the ease of one's mind is to cure melancholy by madness.
Wise men ne'er sit and wail their loss, / But
cheerly seek how to redress their harms.
Wise men say nothing in dangerous times.
Wise sayings are as saltpits; you may extract salt out of them, and sprinkle it where you will.
Wise sayings are not only for ornament, but for action and business, having a point or edge, whereby knots in business are pierced and discovered.
Wise sayings are the guiding oracles which man has found out for himself in that great business of ours, of learning how to be, to do, to do without, and to depart.
Wise to resolve, and patient to perform.
Wise, well-calculated breeding of a young soul lies fatally over the horizon in these epochs.
Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
Wishing, of all employments, is the worst.
Wissen ist leichter als thun
Wit and judgment often are at strife, / Though
meant each other's aid, like man and wife.
Wit and understanding are trifles without integrity.
Wit and wisdom are born with a man.
Wit, bright, rapid, and blasting as the lightning, flashes, strikes, and vanishes in an instant; humour, warm and all-embracing as the sunshine, bathes its object in a genial and abiding light.
Wit is a dangerous weapon, even to the possessor, if he knows not how to use it discreetly.
Wit is a pernicious thing when it is not tempered
with virtue and humanity.
Wit is brushwood, judgment timber; the one gives the greatest flame, the other yields the durablest heat; and both meeting make the best fire.
Wit is of the true Pierian spring, that can make anything of anything.
Wit marries ideas lying wide apart, by a sudden jerk of the understanding.
Wit once bought is worth twice taught.
Wit strews a single ray
from the rest upon an object; never white light, that is the province of wisdom.
Wit, when neglected by the great, is generally despised by the vulgar.
Wit without employment is a disease.
Wit without wisdom is salt without meat.
Wit-work is always play, when it is good.
Wit's an unruly engine, wildly striking / Sometimes
a friend, sometimes the engineer: / Hast thou the knack? pamper it not with liking; / But if thou want it, buy it not too dear.
Witchcraft has been put a stop to by Act of Parliament, but the mysterious relations which it emblemed still continue.
With all appliances and means to boot.
With bag and baggage.
With centric and eccentric scribbled o'er, / Cycle and epicycle, orb in orb.
With consistency a great soul has simply
nothing to do. He may as well concern himself with his shadow on the wall.
With curious art the brain, too finely wrought, / Preys on herself, and is destroyed by thought.
With devotion's visage / And pious action we do sugar over / The devil himself.
With disadvantages enough to call him down to humility, a Scotchman is one of the proudest things alive.
With every anguish of our earthly part the spirit's sight grows clearer; this was meant when Jesus touched the blind man's lids with clay.
With every breath we draw, an ethereal
stream of Lethe runs through our whole being, so that we have but a partial recollection of our joys, and scarcely any of our sorrows.
With faith, martyrs, otherwise weak, can cheerfully endure the shame and the cross: and without it worldlings puke up their sick existence, by suicide, in the midst of luxury.
With fingers weary and worn, / With eyelids heavy and red, / A woman sat in unwomanly rags, / Plying her needle and thread--/ Stitch! stitch! stitch!
"With it, or upon it, my son."
With just enough of learning to misquote.
With love come life and hope.
With malice towards none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right.
With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come.
With moral, political, religious considerations, high and dear as they may otherwise be, the philosopher, as such, has no concern.
With much we surfeit; plenty makes us poor.
With narrow-minded persons, and those in a
state of mental darkness, we find conceit: while with mental clearness and high endowments we never find it. In such cases there is generally a joyful feeling of strength, but since this strength is actual, the feeling is anything else you please, only not conceit.
With none who bless us, none whom we can bless--/ This is to be alone; this, this is solitude!
With necessity, the tyrant's plea, excused his devilish deeds.
With ordinary talent and extraordinary perseverance, all things are attainable.
With parsimony a little is sufficient, and without it nothing is sufficient, whereas frugality makes a poor man rich.
With patient mind thy path of duty run; /
God nothing does, nor suffers to be done, / But thou thyself wouldst do, if thou couldst see / The end of all events as well as he.
With poetry, as with going to sea, we should push from the shore and reach a certain elevation before we unfurl all our sails.
With poetry second-rate in quality, no one ought to be allowed to trouble mankind.
With remembrance of the greater grief to banish the less.
With respect to luxuries and comforts, the wisest have ever lived a more simple and meagre life than the poor.
With some life is exactly like a sleigh-drive,
showy and tinkling, but affording just as little for the heart as it offers much to eyes and ears.
With stupidity and sound digestion man may front much; but what in these dull, unimaginative days are the terrors of conscience to the diseases of the liver!
With temperance, health, cheerfulness, friends, a chosen task, one pays the cheapest fees for living, and may well dispense with other physicians.
With the dead there is no rivalry. In the dead there is no change. Plato is never sullen. Cervantes is never petulant. Demosthenes never comes unseasonably. Dante never stays too long.
With the Gospels one becomes a heretic.
With the majority of men unbelief in one thing is founded on blind belief in another thing.
With the possession or certain expectation of
good things our demand rises, and increases our capacity for further possession and larger expectations.
With thought, with the ideal, is immortal hilarity, the rose of joy. Round it all the Muses sing.
With too much quickness ever to be taught; / With too much thinking to have common thought.
With virtue, capacity, and good conduct, one still can be insupportable. The manners, which are neglected as small things, are often those which decide men for or against you. A slight attention to them would have prevented their ill judgments.
With well-doing ye may put to silence foolish men.
With what a heavy and retarding weight does
expectation load the wing of time.
With what is debateable I am unconcerned; and when I have only opinions about things ... I do not talk about them. I attack only what cannot on any possible ground be defended; and state only what I know to be incontrovertibly true.
With women worth the being won, / The softest lover ever best succeeds.
Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour's house; lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee.
Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it.
Within man is the soul of the whole; the
wise silence, the universal beauty, to which every part and particle is equally related--the Eternal One.
Within that awful volume lies / The mystery of mysteries.
Within the hollow crown / That rounds the mortal temples of a king, / Keeps Death his court.
Within the most starched cravat there passes a windpipe and weasand, and under the thickliest embroidered waistcoat beats a heart.
Within us all a universe doth dwell.
Within yourselves deliverance must be
Each man his pri
Without a belief in personal immortality religion surely is like an arch resting on one pillar, like a bridge ending in an abyss.
Without a God there is for man neither purpose, nor goal, nor hope, only a wavering future, an eternal dread of every darkness.
Without a rich heart wealth is an ugly beggar.
Without a sign his sword the brave man draws, / And asks no omen but his country's cause.
Without adversity a man hardly knows
whether he is honest or not.
Without affecting stoicism, it may be said that it is our business to exempt ourselves as much as we can from the power of external things.
Without cheerfulness no man can be a poet.
Without discretion learning is pedantry and wit impertinence; virtue itself looks like weakness. The best parts only qualify a man to be more sprightly in errors, and active to his own prejudice.
Without earnestness there is nothing to be done in life; yet among the people we name cultivated, little earnestness is to be found.
Without economy none can be rich, and with
it few can be poor.
Without enjoyment, the wealth of the miser is the same to him as if it were another's. But when it is said of a man "he hath so much," it is with difficulty he can be induced to part with it.
Without eyes thou shalt want light: profess not the knowledge therefore that thou hast not.
Without friends no one would choose to live, even if he had all other good things.
Without God in the world.
Without great men, great crowds of people in
a nation are disgusting; like moving cheese, like hills of ants or of fleas--the more, the worse.
Without great men nothing can be done.
Without justice society is sick, and will continue sick till it dies.
Without me ye can do nothing.
Without passion man is a mere latent force and possibility.
Without passion there is no geniality.
Without philosophy we should be little above the lower animals.
Without poetry our science will appear incomplete, and most of what now passes with us for religion and philosophy will be replaced by poetry.
Without real masters you cannot have servants.
Without some strong motive to the contrary, men united by the pursuit of a clearly defined common aim of irresistible attractiveness naturally coalesce; and since they coalesce naturally, they are clearly right in coalescing and find their advantage in it.
Without tact you can learn nothing. Tact
teaches you when to be silent. Inquirers who are always inquiring never learn anything.
Without the spiritual world the material world is a disheartening enigma.
Without the way there is no going; without the truth, no knowing; without the life, no living.
Without were fightings, within were fears.
Without wonder there is no faith.
Witticisms please as long as we keep them
within bounds, but pushed to excess they cause offence.
Witty, above all, O be not witty; none of us is bound to be witty, under penalties; to be wise and true we all are, under the terriblest penalties.
Wives are young men's mistresses, companions for middle age, and old men's nurses.
Wo der Teufel nicht hin mag; da send er seinen Boten hin
Wo fasse ich dich, unendliche Natur?
Wo grosse Höh', ist grosse Tiefe
Wo innen Sklaverei ist, wird sie von aussen bald kommen
Wo man singet, lass dich ruhig nieder, / Ohne Furcht, was man am Lande glaubt; / Wo man singet wird kein Mensch beraubt; / Bösewichter haben keine Lieder
Wo viel Freiheit, ist viel Irrthum
Wo viel Licht ist, ist starker Schatten
Wo viel zu wagen ist, ist viel zu wägen
Woe does the heavier sit / Where it perceives it is but faintly borne.
Woe, that too late repents.
Woe to every sort of culture which destroys the most effectual means of all true culture, and directs us to the end, instead of rendering us happy on the way.
Woe to him that is alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up.
Woe to that land that's govern'd by a child.
Woe unto him that is never alone, and cannot bear to be alone.
Woe unto you when all men speak well of you.
Woe, woe to youth, to life, which idly boasts, / I am the End, and mine the appointed Way.
Wohl unglückselig ist der Mann, / Der unterlässt das, was er kann, / Und unterfängt sich, was er nicht versteht; / Kein Wunder, dass er zu Grunde geht
Wohlgethan überlebt den Tod
Wohlthätigheit kennt keinen Unterschied der Nation
Wollt ihr auf Menschen wirken, / Müsst ihr erst Menschen werden
Wollt ihr immer leben?
Wolves in sheep's clothing.
Woman alone knows true loyalty of affection.
Woman, divorced from home, wanders unfriended like a waif upon the wave.
Woman endeavours to breed her daughter a fine lady, qualifying her for a station in which she will never appear, and at the same time incapacitating her for that retirement to which she is destined.
Woman, in accordance with her unbroken, clear-seeing nature, loses herself, and what she has of heart and happiness, in the object she loves.
Woman is at once the delight and the terror of man.
Woman is like the reed which bends to every
breeze, but breaks not in the tempest.
Woman is mistress of the art of completely embittering the life of the person on whom she depends.
Woman is not undevelopt man, / But diverse; could we make her as the man, / Sweet love were slain: his dearest bond is this / Not like to like, but like in difference.
Woman is seldom merciful to the man who is timid.
Woman is the blood-royal of life; let there be slight degrees of precedency among them, but let them be all sacred.
Woman is the lesser man.
Woman is the salvation or the destruction of the family.
Woman is too soft to hate permanently; even if a hundred men have been a grief to her, she will still love the hundred and first.
Woman, last at the cross and earliest at the grave.
Woman, once made equal to man, becometh his superior.
Woman sees deep; man sees far. To the man
the world is his heart; to the woman the heart is her world.
Woman's at best a contradiction still.
Woman's cause is man's; they rise or sink / Together, dwarfed or godlike, bond or free.
Woman's counsel is not worth much, yet he that despises it is no wiser than he should be.
Woman's dignity lies in her being unknown; her glory, in the esteem of her husband; and her pleasure, in the welfare of her family.
Woman's fear and love hold quantity; / In neither aught, or in extremity.
Woman's function is a guiding, not a determining one.
Woman's grief is like a summer storm, short as it is violent.
Woman's heart is just like a lithographer's stone--what is once written upon it cannot be rubbed out.
Woman's love, like lichens upon a rock, will
still grow where even charity can find no soil to nurture itself.
Woman's power is for rule, not for battle; and her intellect is not for invention or creation, but for sweet ordering, arrangement, and decision.
Woman's power is over the affections. A beautiful dominion is hers, but she risks its forfeiture when she seeks to extend it.
Woman's tongue is her sword, which she never lets rust.
Woman's virtue is the music of stringed instruments, which sound best in a room; but man's that of wind instruments, which sound best in the open air.
Woman's work, grave sirs, is never done.
Women always show more taste in adorning others than themselves; and the reason is, that their persons are like their hearts--they read another's better than they can their own.
Women and clergymen have so long been in the habit of using pretty words without troubling themselves to understand them, that they now revolt from the effort, as if it were impiety.
Women and men of retiring timidity are cowardly only in dangers which affect themselves, but the first to rescue when others are endangered.
Women are as roses, whose fair flower / Being once display'd, doth fall that very hour.
Women are born worshippers.
Women are confined within the narrow limits of domestic assiduity, and when they stray beyond them they move beyond their sphere, and consequently without grace.
Women are ever in extremes; they are either better or worse than men.
Women are like limpets, they need something to hold on by.
Women are the poetry of the world, in the same sense as the stars are the poetry of heaven. Clear, light-giving, harmonious, they are the terrestrial planets that rule the destinies of mankind.
Women bestow on friendship only what they
borrow from love.
Women cannot see so far as men can, but what they do see they see quicker.
Women exceed the generality of men in love.
Women famed for their valour, their skill in politics or their learning, leave the duties of their own sex in order to invade the privileges of men's.
Women forgive injuries, but never forget slights.
Women have a kind of sturdy sufferance
which qualifies them to endure beyond, much beyond, the common run of men, but ... they are by no means famous for seeing remote consequences in all their real importance.
Women, it has been observed, are not naturally formed for great cares themselves, but to soften ours.
Women judge women hardly; ... they have no shading, / No softening tints, no generous allowance / For circumstance to make the picture human, / And true because so human.
Women know by nature how to disguise their emotions far better than the most consummate male courtiers can do.
Women, like princes, find few real friends.
Women, like the plants in woods, derive their
softness and tenderness from the shade.
Women may fall when there's no strength in men.
Women, priests, and poultry have never enough.
Women should learn betimes to serve according to station, for by serving alone she at last attains to the mastery, to the due influence which she ought to possess in the household.
Women that are the least bashful are not unfrequently the most modest; and we are never more deceived than when we would infer any laxity of principle from that freedom of demeanour which often arises from a total ignorance of vice.
Women, though they have the warmest hearts,
are no citizens of the world, scarcely citizens of a town or a village, but only of their own home.
Women who have lost their faith / Are angels who have lost their wings.
Women wish to be loved, not because they are pretty, or good, or well-bred, or graceful, or intelligent, but because they are themselves.
Women's hearts are made of stout leather; there's a plaguy sight of wear in them.
Women's jars breed men's wars.
Women's rage, like shallow water, / Does
but show their hurtless nature; / When the stream seems rough and frowning, / There is still least fear of drowning.
Women's sins are not alone the ills they do, / But those that they provoke you to.
Wonder is from surprise, and surprise ceases upon experience.
Wonder on till truth make all things plain.
"Wonder," says Aristotle, "is the first cause of philosophy." This is quite as true in the progress of the individual as in that of the concrete mind; and the constant aim of philosophy is to destroy its parent.
Wondrous indeed is the virtue of a true book. Not like a dead city of stones, yearly crumbling, yearly needing repair; more like a tilled field, but then a spiritual field; like a spiritual tree, let me rather say, it stands from year to year, and from age to age (we have books that already number some one hundred and fifty human ages); and yearly comes its new produce of leaves (commentaries, deductions, philosophical, political systems, or were it only sermons, pamphlets, journalistic essays), every one of which is talismanic and thaumaturgic, for it can persuade men.
Wondrous is the strength of cheerfulness, altogether past calculation its powers of endurance.
Woodman, spare that tree! / Touch not a single bough! / In youth it sheltered me, / And I'll protect it now.
Words are also actions, and actions are a kind of words.
Words are but poor interpreters in the realms
of emotion. When all words end, music begins; when they suggest, it realises; and hence the secret of its strange, ineffable power.
Words are but wind, but seein's believin'.
Words are fools' pence.
Words are good, but they are not the best. The best is not to be explained by words.
Words are like leaves, and when they most abound / Much fruit of sense beneath is rarely found.
Words are like sea-shells on the shore; they
show / Where the mind ends, and not how far it has been.
Words are men's daughters, but God's sons are things.
Words are rather the drowsy part of poetry; imagination the life of it.
Words are the motes of thought, and nothing more.
Words are things, and a small drop of ink, / Falling like dew upon a thought, produces / That which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think.
Words are wise men's counters, but they are
the money of fools.
Words are women, deeds are men.
Words become luminous when the finger of the poet touches them with his phosphorus.
Words do sometimes fly from the tongue that the heart did neither hatch nor harbour.
Words, like Nature, half reveal / And half conceal the soul within.
Words may be counterfeit, false coined, and
current only from the tongue, without the mind; but passion is in the soul, and always speaks the heart.
Words of love are works of love.
Words pay no debts.
Words that are now dead were once alive.
Words, "those fickle daughters of the earth," are the creation of a being that is finite, and when applied to explain that which is infinite, they fail; for that which is made surpasses not the maker; nor can that which is immeasurable by our thoughts be measured by our tongues.
Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath
give.
Words which flow fresh and warm from a full heart, and which are instinct with the life and breath of human feeling, pass into household memories, and partake of the immortality of the affections from which they spring.
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
Work, according to my feeling, is as much of a necessity to man as eating and sleeping. Even those who do nothing which to a sensible man can be called work, still imagine that they are doing something. The world possesses not a man who is an idler in his own eyes.
Work alone is noble.
"Work and wait," "Work and wait," is what
God says to us in creation and in providence.
Work earnestly at anything, you will by degrees learn to work at almost all things.
Work first, you are God's servants; fee first, you are the fiend's.
Work for eternity: not the meagre rhetorical eternity of the periodical critics, but for the real eternity, wherein dwelleth the Divine.
Work for immortality if you will: then wait for it.
Work for some good, be it ever so slowly; /
Cherish some flower, be it ever so lowly; / Labour! all labour is noble and holy: / Let thy great deeds be thy prayer to thy God.
Work, go, fall, rise, speak, be silent! In this manner do the rich sport with those needy men, who are held by the grip of dependence.
Work is for the living.
Work is not man's punishment; it is his reward and his strength, his glory and his pleasure.
Work is of a religious nature,--work is of a brave nature, which it is the aim of all religion to be. "All work of man is as the swimmer's." A waste ocean threatens to devour him; if he front it not bravely, it will keep its word. By incessant wise defiance of it, lusty rebuke and buffet of it, behold how it loyally supports him,--bears him as its conqueror along! "It is so," says Goethe, "with all things that man undertakes in this world."
Work is only done well when it is done with
a will.
Work is our business; its success is God's.
Work is the cure for all the maladies and miseries of man--honest work, which you intend getting done.
Work is the inevitable condition of human life, the true source of human welfare.
Work is the mission of man on this planet.
Work is the only universal currency which God accepts. A nation's welfare will depend on its ability to master the world; that, on power of work; that, on its power of thought.
Work, properly so called, is an appeal from the Seen to the Unseen--a devout calling upon Higher Powers; and unless they stand by us, it will not be a work, but a quackery.
Work till the last beam fadeth, / Fadeth to shine no more; / Work while the night is darkening, / When man's work is o'er.
Work touches the keys of endless activity,
opens the infinite, and stands awe-struck before the immensity of what there is to do.
Work was made for man, and not man for work.
Work without hope draws nectar in a sieve, / And hope without an object cannot live.
Work, work, work, / Till the brain begins to swim; / Work, work, work, / Till the eyes are heavy and dim; / Seam, and gusset, and band, / Band, and gusset, and seam, / Till over the buttons I fall asleep, / And sew them on in a dream.
Works of true merit are seldom very popular in their own day; for knowledge is on the march, and men of genius are the "præstolatores" or "videttes," that are far in advance of their comrades. They are not with them, but before them; not in the camp, but beyond it.
Worldly affairs, which my friends thought so
heavy upon me, they are most of them of our own making, and fall away as soon as we know ourselves.
Worldly riches are like nuts; many clothes are torn in getting them, many a tooth broke in cracking them, but never a belly filled with eating them.
Worse than being fool'd / Of others, is to fool one's self.
Worse than despair, / Worse than the bitterness of death, is hope; / It is the only ill which can find place / Upon the giddy, sharp, and narrow hour / Tottering beneath us.
Worship is transcendent wonder; wonder for which there is no limit or measure.
Worship that is false will kill the soul as
quickly as no worship.
Worship your heroes from afar; contact withers them.
Worte sind der Seele Bild
Worte sind gut, wenn Werke folgen
Worth makes the man, and want of it the fellow; / The rest is all but leather or prunello.
Worth many thousand is the first salute; /
Him that salutes thee, therefore, friendly greet.
Worthless people live only to eat and drink; people of worth eat and drink only to live.
Would they could sell us experience, though at diamond prices, but then no one would use the article second-hand!
Would we but pledge ourselves to truth as heartily as we do to a real or imaginary mistress, and think life too short only because it abridges our time of service, what a new world we should have!
Would we but quit ourselves like men, and resolutely stand our ground, we should not fail of succours from above.
Would Wisdom for herself be wooed, / And
wake the foolish from his dream, / She must be glad as well as good, / And must not only be, but seem.
Would you have men think well of you, then do not speak well of yourself.
Wouldst thou a maiden make thy prize, / Thyself alone the bribe must be.
Wouldst thou both eat thy cake and have it?
Wouldst thou know thyself, then see how others act; wouldst thou understand others, look thou into thine own heart.
Wouldst thou plant for eternity? then plant
into the deep infinite faculties of man, his fantasy and heart. Wouldst thou plant for year and day? then plant into his shallow superficial faculties, his self-love and arithmetical understanding, what will grow there.
"Wouldst thou," so the helmsman answered, / "Learn the secret of the sea? / Only those who brave its dangers / Comprehend its mystery!"
Wouldst thou subject all things to thyself? Subject thyself to reason.
Wouldst thou the life of souls discern? / Nor human wisdom nor divine / Helps thee by aught beside to learn; / Love is life's only sign.
Wouldst thou travel the path of truth and goodness? Never deceive either thyself or others.
Wounds and hardships provoke our courage,
and when our fortunes are at the lowest, our wits and minds are commonly at the best.
Wounds cannot be cured without searching.
Wrap thyself up like a woodlouse, and dream revenge.
Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present.
Write how you will, the critic shall show the world you could have written better.
Write, so much given to God; thou shalt be
heard.
Write thy wrongs in ashes.
Writers of novels and romances in general bring a double loss on their readers--they rob them both of their time and money; representing men, manners, and things, that never have been, nor are likely to be; either confounding or perverting history and truth, inflating the mind, or committing violence upon the understanding.
Writing is not literature unless it gives to the reader a pleasure which arises not only from the things said, but from the way in which they are said; and that pleasure is only given when the words are carefully or curiously or beautifully put together into sentences.
Written all of it
sympathetic ink. Bible awakens it, and you can read.
Wrong is not only different from right, but it is in strict scientific terms infinitely different.
Wrongs are often forgiven, but contempt never is. Our pride remembers it for ever. It implies a discovery of weaknesses, which we are much more careful to conceal than crimes. Many a man will confess his crimes to a common friend, but I never knew a man who would tell his silly weaknesses to his most intimate one.
Würf er einen Groschen auf's Dach, fiel ihm
ein Thaler herunter
Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you.
Ye are the light of the world.
Ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with you.
Ye are the salt of the earth.
Ye blind guides, which strain at a gnat and
swallow a camel.
Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take; / The clouds ye so much dread / Are big with mercy, and shall break / In blessings on your head.
Ye gentlemen of England / That live at home at ease, / Ah! little do you think upon / The dangers of the seas.
Ye gods, it doth amaze me / A man of such a feeble temper should / So get the start of the majestic world / And bear the palm alone.
Ye good yeomen, whose limbs were made in
England.
Ye hae a stalk o' carl-hemp in you.
Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you.
Ye mariners of England, / That guard our native seas, / Whose flag has braved a thousand years / The battle and the breeze.
Ye may darken over the blue heavens, ye vapoury masses in the sky. It matters not! Beyond the howling of that wrath, beyond the blackness of those clouds, there shines, unaltered and serene, the moon that shone in Paradise.... The moon that promises a paradise restored.
Ye men of gloom and austerity, who paint the
face of Infinite Benevolence with an eternal frown, read in the everlasting book, wide open to your view, the lesson it would teach. Its pictures are not in black and sombre hues, but bright and glowing tints; its music--save when ye drown it--is not in sighs and groans, but songs and cheerful sounds. Listen to the million voices in the summer air, and find one dismal as your own.
Ye shall know them by their fruits.
Ye stars! which are the poetry of heaven!... In our aspirations to be great, / Our destinies o'erleap their mortal state, / And claim a kindred with you; for ye are / A beauty and a mystery, and create / In us such love and reverence from afar, / That fortune, fame, power, life, have named themselves a star.
Ye think the rustic cackle of your bourg / The murmur of the world.
Ye'll find mankind an unco squad, / And muckle they may grieve ye.
Yea, let all good things await / Him who cares
not to be great, / But as he saves or serves the state.
Yea, surely the sea like a harper laid hand on the shore as a lyre.
Year chases year, decay pursues decay, / Still drops some joy from withering life away.
Years do not make sages; they only make old men.
Years following years steal something every day; / At last they steal us from ourselves away.
Years steal / Fire from the mind as vigour
from the limb, / And life's enchanted cup but sparkles near the brim.
Yes, there are things we must dream and dare, / And execute ere thought be half aware.
Yes, you find people ready enough to do the good Samaritan without the oil and twopence.
Yet a little while, and we shall all meet there, and our Mother's bosom will screen us all; and Oppression's harness, and Sorrow's fire-whip, and all the Gehenna bailiffs that patrol and inhabit ever-vexed Time, cannot harm us any more.
Yet all that poets sing, and grief hath known, / Of hopes laid waste, knells in that word--Alone.
Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd, /
Than still contemn'd and flatter'd.
Yet do I fear thy nature; / It is too full o' the milk o' human kindness.
Yet I doubt not through the ages one increasing purpose runs, / And the thoughts of men are widen'd by the process of the suns.
Yet I've heard say, by wise men in my day, / That none are outwitted so easy as they / Who reckon with all men as if they suspect them, / And traffic in caution, and watch to detect them.
Yet one thing secures us, whatever betide, / The Scripture assures us the Lord will provide.
Yet taught by Time, my heart has learned to glow / For other's good and melt at other's woe.
Yet there are surely times when there is nought / So needed as unsettling, just to get / Out of old ruts, and seek a nobler life.
Yet this grief / Is added to the griefs the great must bear, / That howsoever much they may desire / Silence, they cannot weep behind a cloud.
Yield not thy neck / To fortune's yoke, but let thy dauntless mind / Still ride in triumph over all mischance.
Yield not to temptation, for yielding is sin; /
Each victory will help you some other to win.
Yield to God's word and will, and you will escape many a calamity.
Yielding is sometimes the best way of succeeding.
Yielding, timid weakness is always abused and insulted by the unjust and unfeeling; but meekness, when sustained by the "fortiter in re," is always respected, commonly successful.
You accuse woman of wavering affection. Blame her not; she is but seeking a constant man.
You always aspire to very little at first, but
as you mount the ladder, you are sure to look down upon what you formerly looked up to as the height of happiness.
You always end ere you begin.
You are always willing enough to read lives, but never willing to lead them.
You are my true and honourable wife, / As dear to me as are the ruddy drops / That visit my sad heart.
You are not very good if you are not better than your best friends imagine you to be.
You are obliged to your imagination for three-fourths
of your importance.
You are prosperous, you are great, you are "beyond the world," as I have heard people say, meaning the power or the caprice thereof; but you are not beyond the power of events.
You are to come to your study as to the table, with a sharp appetite, whereby that which you read may the better digest. He that has no stomach to his book will very hardly thrive upon it.
You are transported by calamity / Thither where more attends you.
You arrive at truth through poetry, and I arrive at poetry through truth.
You beat your pate, and fancy wit will come; /
Knock as you please, there's nobody at home.
You begin in error when you suggest that we should regard the opinion of the many about just and unjust, good and evil, honourable and dishonourable.
You can easily ascertain
comes from the heart, for what comes from it in another's must go to your own.
You can imagine thistle-down so light that when you run after it your running motion would drive it away from you, and that the more you tried to catch it the faster it would fly from your grasp. And it should be with every man, that, when he is chased by troubles, they, chasing, shall raise him higher and higher.
You can never be wise unless you love reading.
You can never by persistency make wrong
right.
You can speak well, if your tongue deliver the message of your heart.
You canna expect to be baith grand and comfortable.
You cannot abolish slavery by Act of Parliament, but can only abolish the name of it, which is very little.
You cannot climb a ladder by pushing others down.
You cannot fathom your mind. There is a well
of thought there which has no bottom; the more you draw from it, the more clear and fruitful it will be.
You cannot get anything out of Nature or from God by gambling;--only out of your neighbour.
You cannot have the ware and the money both at once; and he who always hankers for the ware without having heart to give the money for it, is no better off than he who repents him of the purchase when the ware is in his hands.
You cannot have your work well done if the work be not of a right kind.
You cannot hide any secret.
You cannot lead a fighting world without
having it regimented, chivalried; nor can you any more continue to lead a working world unregimented, anarchic.
You cannot love the real sun, that is to say, physical light and colour, rightly, unless you love the spiritual sun, that is to say, justice and truth, rightly.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
You cannot push a man far up a tree.
You cannot put a quartern loaf into a child's head; you must break it up, and give him the crumb in warm milk.
You cannot rear a temple like a hut of sticks
and turf.
You cannot save men from death but by facing it for them, nor from sin but by resisting it for them.
You cannot secure even enjoyment in stagnation.
You can't be lost on a straight road.
You can't "have" your pudding unless you can "eat" it.
You can't order remembrance out of a man's
mind.
You can't see the wood for the trees.
You can't tell a nut till you crack it.
You complain of the difficulty of finding work for your men; the real difficulty rather is to find men for your work.
You do not believe, you only believe that you believe.
You do not educate a man by telling him what he knew not, but by making him what he was not, and what he will remain for ever.
You don't value your peas for their roots or your carrots for their flowers. Now that's the way you should choose women.
You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant; / But yet you draw not iron, for my heart / Is true as steel; leave you your power to draw, / And I shall have no power to follow you.
You feel yourself an exile in the East; but in the West too it is exile; I know not where under the sun it is not exile.
You find faut wi' your meat, and the faut's
all i' your own stomach.
You find yourself refreshed by the presence of cheerful people. Why not make earnest effort to confer that pleasure on others? You will find half the battle is gained if you never allow yourself to say anything gloomy.
You frighten me out of my seven senses.
You gazed at the moon and fell in the gutter.
You give me nothing during your life, but you promise to provide for me at your death. If you are not a fool, you know what I wish for.
You have deserved / High commendation, true
applause and love.
You have many enemies that know not / Why they are so, but, like to village curs, / Bark when their fellows do.
You have no business with consequences; you are to tell the truth.
You have no hold on a human being whose affections are without a tap-root!
You have not outgrown, you cannot outgrow, the need of a great and authoritative teacher.
You have scotched the snake, not killed him.
You have too much respect upon the world; / They lose it that do buy it with much care.
You knock a man into the ditch, and then you tell him to remain content in the "position in which Providence has placed him."
You know how slight a line will tow a boat when afloat on the billows, though a cable would hardly move her when pulled up on the beach.
You know it is not my interest to pay the principal, nor is it my principle to pay the interest.
You know no rules of charity, / Which renders
good for bad, blessings for curses.
You know not where a blessing may light.
You know that in everything women write there are always a thousand faults of grammar, but, with your permission, a harmony which is rare in the writings of men.
You lie nearest to the river of life when you bend to it. You cannot drink but as you stoop.
You live one half year with deception and art; / With art and deception you live t'other part.
You make but a poor trap to catch luck if you
go and bait it with wickedness.
You may as soon separate weight from lead, heat from fire, moistness from water, and brightness from the sun, as misery, discontent, calamity, and danger from man.
You may as well ask a loom which weaves huckaback why it does not make cashmere, as expect poetry from this engineer, or a chemical discovery from that jobber.
You may depend upon it, religion is, in its essence, the most gentlemanly thing in the world. It will alone gentilise, if unmixed with cant; and I know nothing else that will, alone; certainly not the army, which is thought to be the grand embellisher of manners.
You may depend upon it that he is a good man whose intimate friends are all good.
(You may) dig the deep foundations of a long-abiding
fame, / And wist not that they undermine (your) home of love and peace.
You may do anything with bayonets except sit on them.
You may fail to shine, in the opinion of others, both in your conversation and actions, from being superior as well as inferior to them.
You may grow good corn in a little field.
You may have to wait a bit--some of you a shorter, some a longer time; but do wait, and everything will fit in and be perfect at last.
You may imitate, but never counterfeit.
You may know a wise man by his election of an aim, and a sagacious by his election of the means.
You may overthrow a government in the twinkling of an eye, as you can blow up a ship or upset and sink one; but you can no more create a government with a word than an iron-clad.
You may paint with a very big brush, and yet not be a great painter.
You may rest upon this as an unfailing truth, that there neither is, nor ever was, any person remarkably ungrateful who was not also insufferably proud; nor any one proud who was not equally ungrateful.
You may ride 's / With one soft kiss a thousand
furlongs ere / With spur we heat an acre.
You may say, "I wish to send this ball so as to kill the lion crouching yonder ready to spring upon me. My wishes are all right, and I hope Providence will direct the ball." Providence won't. You must do it; and if you do not, you are a dead man.
You might as well ask an oyster to make progress, as the people of any country in which grumbling could by any possibility be prohibited.
You must be content sometimes with rough roads.
"You must be in the fashion," is the utterance of weak-headed mortals.
You must begin at a low round of the ladder if you mean to get on.
You must confine yourself within the modest limits of order.
You must educate for education's sake only.
You must empty out the bathing-tub, but not
the baby along with it.
You must either be directed by some that take upon them to know, or take upon yourself that which I am sure you do not know, or jump the after-inquiry on your own peril.
You must get your living by loving, else your life is at least half a failure.
You must live for another if you wish to live for yourself.
You must live the life.
You must lose a fly to catch a trout.
You must not equivocate, nor speak anything positively for which you have no authority but report, or conjecture, or opinion.
You must not fear death, my lads; defy him, and you drive him into the enemy's ranks.
You must not fight too often with one enemy, or you will teach him all your art of war.
You must not measure every man's corn by your own bushel.
You must not suppose that everything goes
right at first even with the best of us.
You must not think / That we are made of stuff so flat and dull, / That we can let our beard be shook with danger, / And think it pastime.
You must rouse in men a consciousness of their own prudence and strength, if you would raise their character.
You must seek and find God in the heart.
You need not tell all the truth, unless to those who have a right to know it all. But let all you tell be truth.
You never can elude the gods when you even
devise wrong.
You never long the greatest man to be; / No! all you say is; "I'm as good as he." / He's the most envious man beneath the sun / Who thinks that he's as good as every one.
You never will love art well till you love what she mirrors better.
You often understand the true connection of important events in your life not while they are going on, nor soon after they are past, but only a considerable time afterwards.
You ought to read books, as you take medicine, by advice, and not advertisement.
You rub the sore, when you should bring the
plaster.
You said your say; / Mine answer was my deed.
You see when they row in a barge, they that do drudgery work, slash, and puff, and sweat; but he that governs sits quietly at the stern, and scarce is seen to stir.
You shall never take a woman without her answer, unless you take her without her tongue.
 (as Carl
You shall not shirk the hobbling Times to catch a ride on the sure-footed Eternities. well, you are there to make them better."
You take my house, when you do take the
prop / That doth sustain my house; you take my life / When you do take the means whereby I live.
You that choose not by the view, / Choose as fair, and choose as true.
You traverse the world in search of happiness, which is within the reach of every man; a contented mind confers it on all.
You watch figures in the fields, digging and delving with spade or pick. You see one of them from time to time straightening his loins, and wiping his face with the back of his hand.... It is there that for me you must seek true humanity and great poetry.
You were used / To say, extremity was the trier of spirits; / That common chances common men could bear; / That when the sea was calm, all boats alike / Showed mastership in floating.
You who are ashamed of your poverty, and
blush for your calling, are a snob; as are you who boast of your pedigree, or are proud of your wealth.
You who follow wealth and power with unremitting ardour, / The more in this you look for bliss, you leave your view the farther.
You who forget your friends, meanly to follow after those of a higher degree, are a snob.
You will as often find a great man above, as below, his reputation, when once you come to know him.
You will catch more flies with a spoonful of honey than with a cask of vinegar.
You will find angling to be like the virtue of
humility, which has a calmness of spirit and a world of other blessings attending upon it.
You will find rest unto your souls when first you take on you the yoke of Christ, but joy only when you have borne it as long as He wills.
You will find that most books worth reading once are worth reading twice.
You will find that silence, or very gentle words, are the most exquisite revenge for reproaches.
You will get more profit from trying to find where beauty is, than in anxiously inquiring what it is. Once for all, it remains undemonstrable; it appears to us, as in a dream, when we behold the works of the great poets and painters; and in short, of all feeling artists; it is a hovering, shining, shadowy form, the outline of which no definition holds.
You will never live to my age, without you keep yourselves in breath with exercise, and in heart with joyfulness.
You will never miss the right way if you only act according to your feelings and conscience.
You will never see anything worse than yourselves.
You wise, / To call him shamed, who is but overthrown?
You wish, O woman, to be ardently loved, and
for ever, even until death, be thou the mother of your children.
You write with ease to show your breeding, / But easy writing's cursed hard reading.
You'll repent if you marry, and you'll repent if you don't.
Young authors give their brains much exercise and little food.
Young Christians think themselves little; growing Christians think themselves nothing; full-grown Christians think themselves less than nothing.
Young folk, silly folk; old folk, cold folk.
Young hot colts, being raged, do rage the more.
Young men are apt to think themselves wise enough, as drunken men are to think themselves sober enough.
Young men are fitter to invent than to judge; fitter for execution than for counsel; and fitter for new projects than for settled business.
Young men soon give, and soon forget affronts; old age is slow in both.
Young men think that old men are fools; but
old men know young men are fools.
Young people are quick enough to observe and imitate.
Your acts are detectives, keener and more unerring than ever the hand of sensational novelist depicted; they will dog you from the day you sinned till the hour your trial comes off.
Your born angler is like a hound that scents no game but that which he is in pursuit of.
Your cause belongs / To him who can avenge your wrongs.
Your goodness must have some edge to it,
else it is none.
Your hands in your own pockets in the morning, is the beginning of the last day; your hands in other people's pockets at noon, is the height of the last day.
Your "if" is the only peacemaker; much virtue in "if."
Your labour only may be sold; your soul must not.
Your learning, like the lunar beam, affords light but not heat.
Your levellers wish to level down as far as
themselves; but they cannot bear levelling up to themselves.
Your noblest natures are most credulous.
Your own soul is the thing you ought to look after.
Your own words and actions are the only things you will be called to account for.
Your prime one need is to do right, under whatever compulsion, till you can do it without compulsion. And then you are a Man.
Your tongue runs before your wit.
Your rusty kettle will continue to boil your water for you if you don't try to mend it. Begin tinkering and there is an end of your kettle.
Your voiceless lips, O flowers, are living preachers,--each cup a pulpit, and each leaf a book.
Your words are like notes of dying swans--/ Too sweet to last.
You're always sure to detect / A sham in the things folks most affect.
Yours is a pauper's soul, a rich man's pelf: /
Rich to your heirs, a pauper to yourself.
Youth, abundant wealth, high birth, and inexperience, are, each of them, the source of ruin. What then must be the fate of him in whom all four are combined?
Youth beholds happiness gleaming in the prospect. Age looks back on the happiness of youth, and, instead of hopes, seeks its enjoyment in the recollection of hope.
Youth, enthusiasm, and tenderness are like the days of spring. Instead of complaining, O my heart, of their brief duration, try to enjoy them.
Youth ever thinks that good whose goodness or evil he sees not.
Youth fades; love droops; the leaves of friendship
fall; a mother's secret hope outlives them all!
Youth holds no society with grief.
Youth is a blunder; manhood, a struggle; old age, a regret.
Youth is ever apt to judge in haste, and lose the medium in the wild extreme.
Youth is ever confiding; and we can almost forgive its disinclination to follow the counsels of age, for the sake of the generous disdain with which it rejects suspicion.
Youth is full of sport, age's breath is short; /
Youth is nimble, age is lame: / Youth is hot and bold, age is weak and cold; / Youth is wild, and age is tame.
Youth is not rich in time; it may be, poor; part with it, as with money, sparing; pay no moment but in purchase of its worth; and what its worth ask death-beds, they can tell.
Youth is not the age of pleasure; we then expect too much, and we are therefore exposed to daily disappointments and mortifications. When we are a little older, and have brought down our wishes to our experience, then we become calm and begin to enjoy ourselves.
Youth is the season of credulity.
Youth is too tumultuous for felicity; old age too insecure for happiness. The period most favourable to enjoyment, in a vigorous, fortunate, and generous life, is that between forty and sixty. Life culminates at sixty.
Youth may make / Even with the year; but age, if it will hit, / Shoots a bow short, and lessens still his stake, / As the day lessens, and his life with it.
Youth never yet lost its modesty where age had not lost its honour; nor did childhood ever refuse its reverence, except where age had forgotten correction.
Youth no less becomes / The light and careless livery that it wears, / Than settled age his sables and his weeds, / Importing health and graveness.
Youth should be a savings-bank.
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
Youth would rather be stimulated than instructed.
Youth, when thought is speech and speech is truth.
Youth will never live to age, without they keep themselves in breath with exercise, and in heart with joyfulness. Too much thinking doth consume the spirits; and oft it falls out, that while one thinks too much of doing, he leaves to do the effect of his thinking.
Youthful failing is not to be admired except in so far as one may hope that it will not be the failing of old age.
Zahltag kommt alle Tag
Zankt, wenn ihr sitzt beim Weine, / Nicht um Kaisers Bart
Zeal ever follows an appearance of truth, and the assured are too apt to be warm; but it is their weak side in argument, zeal being better shown against sin than persons, or their mistakes.
Zeal for uniformity attests the latent distrusts, not the firm convictions, of the zealot. In proportion to the strength of our self-reliance is our indifference to the multiplication of suffrages in favour of our own judgment.
Zeal is fit for wise men, but flourishes chiefly among fools.
Zeal is like fire; it needs both feeding and
watching.
Zeal is no further commendable than as it is attended with knowledge.
Zeal is very blind or badly regulated when it encroaches upon the rights of others.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
Zeal without knowledge is like expedition to a man in the dark.
Zeit ist's, die Unfälle zu beweinen, / Wenn sie
nahen und wirklich erscheinen
Zeit verdeckt und entdeckt
Zeitungsschreiber: ein Mensch, der seinen Beruf verfehlt hat
Zerstreuung ist wie eine goldene Wolke, die den Menschen, / Wär es auch nur auf kurze Zeit, seinem Elend entrückt
Zerstörend ist des Lebens Lauf, / Stets frisst ein Thier das andre auf
Zerstreutes Wesen führt uns nicht zum Ziel
Zeus hates busybodies and those who do too much.
Zielen ist nicht genug; es gilt Treffen
Zonam perdidit
Zu leben weiss ich, mich zu kennen weiss ich nicht
Zu Rom bestehen die 10 Gebote aus den 10
Buchstaben
Zu schwer bezahlt man oft ein leicht Versehn
Zu viel Demuth ist Hochmuth
Zu viel Glück ist Unglück
Zu viel Weisheit ist Narrheit
Zu viel Wissbegierde ist ein Fehler, und aus
einem Fehler können alle Laster entspringen, wenn man ihm zu sehr nachhängt
Zufrieden sein, das ist mein Spruch
Zum Kriegführen sind dreierlei Dinge nötig--Geld! Geld! Geld!
Zum Leiden bin ich auserkoren
Zur Tugend der Ahnen / Ermannt sich der Held
Zwar eine schöne Tugend ist die Treue, / Doch
schöner ist Gerechtigkeit
Zwar nicht wissen--aber glauben / Heisst ganz richtig--Aberglauben
Zwar sind sie an das Beste nicht gewöhnt, / Allein sie haben schrecklich viel gelesen
Zwar weiss ich viel, doch möcht' ich alles wissen
Zwei Fliegen mit einer Klappe schlagen
Zwei gute Tage hat der Mensch auf Erden; / Den Hochzeitstag und das Begrabenwerden
Zwei Seelen und ein Gedanke, / Zwei Herzen und ein Schlag
Zwei Seelen wohnen, ach! in meiner Brust, /
Die eine will sich von der andern trennen
Zwei sind der Wege, auf welchen der Mensch zur Tugend emporstrebt, / Schliesst sich der eine dir zu, thut sich der andre dir auf, / Handelnd erreicht der Glückliche sie, der Leidende duldend; / Wohl ihm, den sein Geschick liebend auf beiden geführt
Zweierlei Arten giebt es, die treffende Wahrheit zu sagen; / Oeffentlich immer dem Volk, immer dem Fürsten geheim
Zwischen Amboss und Hammer
Zwischen heut' und morgen sind Grüfte, zwischen Versprechen und Erfüllen Klüfte
Zwischen Lipp' und Kelchesrand / Schwebt
der dunkeln Mächte Hand
Zwischen uns sei Wahrheit
Aaron
Abasement
Abbot
Abiding
Abilities
Ability
Able
Abode
Above
Absent
Absenteeism
Abstract
Abstractions
Absurd
Absurdity
Abundance
Abuse
Abuses
Accent
Accessible
Accidents
Accommodation
Accord
Accusing
Acheron
Achieved
Achievement
Achievements
Achilles
Acknowledgment
Acquaintance
Acquaintances
Acquaintanceship
Acquirement
Acquisition
Acquisitions
Act
Acting
Action
Actions
Activity
Actor
Acts
Actual
Adaptation
Address
Adieu
Administer
Admiration
Admonition
Adore
Adulation
Advance
Advanced
Advancing
Advantage
Adverbs
Adventure
Adventurers
Adventures
Adversaries
Adversities
Adversity
Advice
Advisement
Adviser
Advising
Advocate
Afar
Affairs
Affectation
Affection
Affections
Affinities
Affirmation
Affirmatives
Afflicted
Affliction
Agamemnon
Age
Agencies
Ages
Agnosticism
Agreeable
Agreement
Agriculture
Aid
Aim
Alacrity
Alarm
Alchemists
Alchemy
Alcohol
Alexander
All
Allegiance
Allegory
Alliance
Alliteration
Allotted
Alms
Almsgiving
Alms-people
Alone
Alphonso
Altitude
Amateur
Ambassador
Ambition
Ambitions
Ambition's
Ambitious
Amen
Amendment
America
Americans
Amiss
Amusement
Anarchy
Ancestors
Ancestry
Anchor
Anchorage
Anchoring
Ancients
Anecdote
Angel
Angel's
Angel-visits
Angels
Anger
Angler
Angling
Angry
Anguish
Animal
Animals
Annihilation
Annoyances
Annoying
Answer
Ant
Antæus
Antagonist
Anthropomorphism
Antiquary
Antique
Antiquity
Antony
Anvil
Anxiety
Ape
Aphorism
Aphorisms
Apollo
Apology
Apostle
Apostates
Apothegms
Apparel
Appearance
Appearances
Appetite
Appetites
Applaud
Applause
Application
Appreciation
Apprenticeship
Approved man
Aptitudes
Arc
Arch-enemy
Archer
Archimedes
Architect
Architecture
Arguing
Argument
Arguments
Aristocracies
Aristocracy
Aristocrat
Armada
Armies
Arms
Army
Arrogance
Art
Artifice
Artisan
Artisans
Artist
Artist-work
Artistes
Artists
Arts
Asbestos
Ashes
Asketh
Asking
Aspiration
Ass
Assertion
Asses
Assistance
Association
Associations
Assuming
Assurance
Astray
Atheism
Atheist
Atheist's
Athene
Athens
Atonement
Attachment
Attainment
Attempt
Attention
Attorney's
Auctioneer
Audacity
Augustine's
Auld
Austerity
Australia
Author
Authority
Authors
Authorship
Avarice
Avaricious
Avengement
Avenue
Awkwarkness
Awoke
Axioms
Aye
Bachelors
Back
Backbiter
Backsliding
Bacon
Bad
Bairns
Ballads
Ballot-box
Banishment
Baptism
Barbarian
Barbarism
Barbarous
Bargain
Bargains
Barrel-organ
Barter
Base
Baseness
Bashfulness
Bathing
Battalions
Battle
Battlefield
Battlefields
Bayonets
Be
Be-all
Bear
Beard
Beast
Beasts
Beau
Beaufort
Beautiful
Beauty
"Because"
Becoming
Bed
Bede's
Bedlam
Bee
Bees
Beggar
Beggar'd
Beggar's
Begging
Beginning
Beginnings
Begun
Behaviour
Being
Beings
Belial
Belief
Beliefs
Believers
Believing
Bell
Bells
Bell-wethers
Belly
Belongings
Beloved
Below
Benefactor
Benefactors
Beneficence
Benefit
Benefits
Benevolence
Benevolent
Berries
Best
Bestride
Betrayal
Betrayer
Better
Bible
Bibles
Biography
Bigot
Bigotry
Bird
Birds
Birth
Birth-place
Births
Bishop
Bitter
Black
Blade
Blame
Blamelessness
Blaming
Blast
Blaze
Blessed
Blessedness
Blessings
Blind
Blindest
Blindness
Bliss
Blockhead
Blood
Bloom
Blossom
Blossoms
Blue-stocking
Blunder
Blundering
Blush
Blushing
Bluster
Blustering
Boasters
Boasting
Boats
Bodies
Bodily
Body
Boldly
Boldness
Bond
Bonfires
Book
Bookish
Books
Bored
Bores
Boring
Born
Borrower
Borrowing
Bosom
Boswells
Boudier's
Bounty
Bourbons
Bow
Bowers
Boy
Boys
Braggards
Brain
Brains
Brave
Bravery
Bravest
Bread
Breast
Breath
Breathe
Breathing
Breed
Breeding
Brevity
Brighter
Brilliancy
Brink
British
Britons
Broken
Brother
Brotherhood
Brothers
Brow
Browning's
Brute, et tu
Brutes
Bubble
Bubbles
Buckets
Bud
Buddhist
Builder
Building
Bullet
Bungling
Bunyan
Burden
Burdens
Bureaucracy
Burgher
Buried
Burns
Burns
Burnt
Business
Bust
Bustle
Busy
Bu
But ye
But
Butter
Buyer
Buyers
Buying
Byron
Byron's
Cæsar
Cæsar
Cake
Cakes
Calamity
Calling
Calm
Calmness
Calumniators
Calumny
Calvin
Camp
Canary
Candour
Canker
Cant
Canticle
Canvassing
Capabilities
Capability
Capacity
Capitalist
Capricious
Captivity
Carcass
Cards
Care
Careless
Carelessness
Cares
Caricature
Carlyle
Carlyle's
Carlyles
Carper
Carters
Cash
Cassandra
Cassius
Castles
Castor
Cat
Categories
Cathedral
Cathedrals
Catiline's
Cato
Cause
Causes
Caution
Censor
Censure
Censurers
Censures
Centuries
Century
Ceremony
Ceres
Certain
Certainty
Chaff-cutter
Chain
Chains
Chamfort's
Chamois
Champion
Champions
Chance
Chances
Change
Chaos
Character
Characters
Charitable
Charities
Charity
Charlatan
Charles II.
Charm
Charmer
Charms
Charter
Chase
Chaste
Chastisement
Chastity
Chatterers
Chaucer
Cheapest
Cheapness
Cheated
Cheating
Cheek
Cheerful
Cheerfulness
Cherub
Chickens
Child
Childhood
Childishness
Children
Child's
Child's
Chimney
Chivalry
Choice
Choler
Christ
Christ's
Christendom
Christian
Christianity
Christians
Christopher, St.
Chronicle
Church
Churches
Churchmen
Circuitous
Circumstance
Circumstances
Cities
Citizen
Citizens
City
Civil
Civilisation
Civilised
Civilisers
Civility
Claim
Clamour
Clan
Class
Classes
Classical
Clay
Clean
Cleanliness
Cleopatra
Clergy
Clergymen
Clerks
Clever
Cleverness
Cliff
Climbing
Cloak
Cloth
Clothes
Clothing
Cloud
Cloud-capt
Clouds
Clown
Coat
Cobbler
Cobblers
Cock
Coin
Colander
College
Cologne
Colour
Colt
Colts
Columbus
Combat
Combatant
Combinations
Comeliness
Comet
Comfort
Comforts
Comic
Command
Commander-in-chief
Commanding
Commandment
Commandments
Commands
Commendation
Commendations
Commentators
Commerce
Common
Commonplace
Commons
Common-sense
Commonwealth
Communications
Communicative
Communism
Communities
Community
Companion
Companions
Companionship
Company
Comparison
Compass
Compassion
Compelled
Compensation
Competency
Competition
Complaining
Complains
Complaint
Complaints
Completeness
Complexion
Complies
Compliment
Compliments
Composition
Comprehensibility
Comprehensible
Compromise
Compulsion
Computation
Concealment
Conceit
Conceited
Concentration
Conceptions
Concern
Conciseness
Concord
Condemnation
Condescension
Condition
Conditions
Condolement
Conduct
Conference
Confession
Confidant
Confidence
Confinement
Conflict
Conforming
Conformity
Confusion
Confutation
Congregation
Conquer
Conquered
Conquering
Conqueror
Conquest
Conquests
Conscience
Conscientiousness
Conscious
Consciousness
Conservatism
Conservative
Consider
Consideration
Consistency
Consistent
Consolation
Constancy
Constant
Constitution
Contemplation
Contemporaries
Contempt
Content
Contented
Contention
Contentment
Contingency
Contradicting
Contradiction
Contradictions
Contraries
Controversy
Contumaciousness
Convenience
Conversation
Conversation's
Converse
Conversing
Conversion
Converting
Conviction
Convictions
Cooking
Cooks
Coolness
Co-operation
Copy
Core
Corn
Cornelia
Corpse
Correction
Corregio
Correspondence
Costume
Cottage
Cotter
Council
Counsel
Counsellor
Counsellors
Counsels
Countenance
Counting
Countries
Country
Courage
Courages
Course
Courses
Court
Courteous
Courtesies
Courtesy
Courtier
Courtship
Covet
Covetous
Covetousness
Cow
Cowardice
Coward
Cowards
Cowl
Cowper
Coxcomb
Cradle
Crack
Craft
Crafty
Creating
Creation
Creation's
Creator
Creature
Creatures
Credit
Credulity
Creed
Creeds
Creeping
Cricket
Crime
Crimes
Criminal
Criminality
Criminals
Cringe
Crisis
Critic
Critical
Criticising
Criticism
Critics
Cromwell
Cromwell's
Crooked
Cross
Crosses
Crowd
Crowded
Crowds
Crown
Crucified
Cruel
Cruelty
Crumbs
Crusaders
Cucumbers
Cultivated
Cultivation
Culture
Cunning
Cup
Cupid
Cupidity
Cupid's
Curiosity
Curse
Cured
Curses
Cursing
Custom
Customs
Cyclops
Cynic
Cynicism
Daggers
Dainties
Daintiness
Daisy
Daisy's
Dalliance
Dame
Dan
Dancing
Dandies
Dandy
Danger
Dante
Daring
Dark
Darkness
Dashes
Daughter
Daughters
David's
Dawn
Day
Days
Dazzles
Dead
Dealing
Dear
Dearest
Death
Death-bed
Debt
Debts
Decay
Deceit
Deceived
Deceiving
Decency
Deception
Decision
Decoration
Deed
Deeds
Deep
Defeat
Defection
Defects
Defence
Deference
Deficiencies
Defilement
Definite
Definition
Deformed
Deformity
Degeneracy
Degree
Deil
Deity
Dejection
Delay
Delays
Deliberation
Delicacy
Delight
Delights
Delirium
Deliverance
Deliverer
Deluded
Delusion
Delusions
Demigods
Democracy
Democrat
Demon
Demonic
Denial
Denier
Deniers
Departed
Departure
Dependence
Depth
Deputies
Derision
Descent
Descriptions
Desert
Deserts
Designing
Desirable
Desire
Desires
Despair
Despatch
Desperation
Despicable
Despising
Despot
Despotism
Despots
Destination
Destinies
Destiny
Destroyer
Destroyers
Destroying
Destruction
Details
Detraction
Development
Devil
Devil's
Devils
Devotion
Dew
Dewdrop
Diamond
Diamonds
Die
Diet
Difference
Difficulties
Difficulty
Diffidence
Digestion
Dignity
Dilettante
Diligence
Dining-out
Dinner
Diogenes
Dirt
Dirty
Disagreeable
Disagreeableness
Disaster
Disasters
Disbelief
Discerning
Discernment
Disciple
Discipleship
Discipline
Discontent
Discontented
Discontentment
Discord
Discouragement
Discourse
Discourses
Discoveries
Discovery
Discretion
Discrimination
Discussion
Disease
Diseases
Disesteem
Disgrace
Disguise
Disguising
Disgust
Dishonour
Disinterestedness
Dislike
Disobedience
Disorder
Dispatch
Dispensable
Dispensation
Display
Disposition
Disputation
Disputes
Disputing
Disquiet
Disraeli's
Dissatisfaction
Dissection
Dissension
Dissimulation
Distance
Distinction
Distinctions
Distinguished
Distress
Distrust
Diversity
Divine
Diviner
Divinity
Division
Divorce
Doctor
Doctors
Doctrine
Document
Doer
Doers
Dog
Dogmas
Dogs
Doing
Doings
Dome
Done
Don't car
Door
Double sense
Doubt
Doubtful
Doubting
Doubts
Down
Downhill
Dowries
Dowry
Drama
Dramas
Drawing
Dreadful
Dream
Dreamer
Dreaming
Dreams
Dregs
Dress
Drill
Drink
Drinking
Drinks
Drop
Drugs
Drunkard
Drunkenness
Dryasdust
Dualism
Dulness
Dumb
Dunce
Duped
Dupes
Dust
Duties
Duty
Dwarf
Dwarfs
Dying
Dynamite
Eagle
Eagles
Ear
Early
Earnestness
Ears
Earth
Earthly
Ease
East and West
Eating
Eccentricity
Echo
Echoes
Economist
Economists
Economy
Ecstasy
Eden
Edicts
Edifices
Education
Educational
Educators
Effect
Effort
Efforts
Eggs
Ego
Egoism
Egoist
Egotism
Egotists
Elect
Election
Elections
Elevates
Elevation
Elevations
Elizabeth
Elizabeth
Eloquence
Eloquent
Elsewhere
Emancipation
Eminence
Emotion
Emotions
Emperor
Empire
Empires
Employment
Empty
Emulation
Encouragement
End
Endeavour
Endeavours
Ending
Endowments
Ends
Endurance
Endure
Enemies
Enemy
Energies
Energy
England
England's
English
Englishman
Englishmen
Enigmas
Enjoying
Enjoyment
Enlistment
Enmities
Enmity
Ennui
Enough
Enslavement
Enterprise
Enterprises
Entertainment
Enthusiasm
Enthusiast
Envied
Envious
Environment
Envy
Epic
Epicurean
Epicurism
Epigram
Epoch
Equality
Equanimity
Equity
Equivocation and evasion
Era
Eras
Err
Erring
Error
Errors
Errs
Eruptions
Establish
Establishments
Estate
Estates
Esteem
Eternal
Eternities
Eternity
Ethics
Ethiopian
Eulogy
Euphemy
Europe
Evangel
Evangelicals
Evening
Event
Events
Everything
Everywhere
Evidence
Evidences
Evil
Evils
Evil-disposed
Evil-doer
Evil-doers
Evil-speaker
Evil-speaking
Evil-wishing
Evolution
Exaggeration
Exalted
Example
Examples
Excel
Excellence
Excellences
Excellency
Excellent
Exception
Exceptions
Excess
Exchange
Excitement
Excitements
Exercise
Exigencies
Exile
Existence
Existent
Expectation
Expectations
Expecting
Expense
Expenses
Expensiveness
Experience
Experiences
Experiments
Exposition
Expression
Expressiveness
Exquisite
External
Extracts
Extraordinary
Extremes
Extremity
Eye
Eyes
Eye-witness
Fable
Face
Faces
Facility
Fact
Faction
Factor
Facts
Faculties
Faculty
Fail
Failing
Failings
Failure
Failures
Fair
Faith
Faithful
Faithfulness
Faithless
Faiths
Fallen
Falls
False
Falsehood
Falsehoods
Falsities
Falsity
Fame
Familiar
Familiarity
Families
Family
Famine
Fanaticism
Fancy
Fancying
Fantasies
Fantasy
Far-away
Farces
Farewell
Farewells
Farthing
Farthings
Fashion
Fashions
Fastidious
Fastidiousness
Fatalism,
Fate
Fated
Fates
Father
Fatherland
Fathers
Fatigue
Fault
Fault-finders
Fault-finding
Faultless
Faults
Faust
Favour
Favours
Fear
Feared
Fearless
Fears
Feast
Feasts
Feather
Feeble
Feeling
Feelings
Feet
Feigned
Felicity
Fell
Fellow
Fellow-feeling
Fellowship
Fetters
Feud
Fibres
Fiction
Fictions
Fiddlestick
Fidelity
Field
Fields
Fiends
Fight
Fighting
Fights
Figure
Finding
Fine Art
Fine
Finesse
Finger-posts
Finished-off
Finite
Fire
Fires
Fireside
Firm
Firmament
Firmness
Fitting
Flame
Flash
Flatterer
Flatterers
Flattery
Flaws
Flesh
Flock
Flogging
Flower
Flowers
Fluency
Flunkeyism
Flush
Flute
Fly
Foe
Foes
Folk
Folks
Follies
Folly
Fondness
Fontaine
Food
Fool
Foolish
Foolishest
Foolishness
Fools
Foot
Footway
Fop
Forbidden
Force
Forebodings
Foreign
Foresight
Forest
Forethought
Forfeited
Forgetfulness
Forgetting
Forgiven
Forgiveness
Forgiving
Forgotten
Form
Forms
Formulas
Forsaking
Fortitude
Fortunate
Fortune
For
Fortune's
Fortunes
Forwards
Fought
Fountain
Fowls
Fox
France
Francis I.
Franklin
Frankness
Fraud
Frederick the Great
Frederick William I.
Free
Freedom
Freedom's
Freemen
Free-will
French
Frenzy
Fretting
Friend
Friendly
Friends
Friendship
Friendships
Frog
Frost
Froth
Frugality
Fruit
Fruits
Fulness
Function
Fury
Future
Futurity
Gaiety
Gain
Gains
Galba
Galileo
Gall
Gallant
Gambler
Gambling
Gamester
Gaming-table
Garb
Garden
Gardener
Garibaldi
Garrulousness
Gatherer
Gay
Gear
Geese
Gem
Gems
General
Generalising
Generality
Generalship
Generation
Generosity
Geniality
Genius
M
Geniuses
Genoese
Gentil man
Gentility
Gentle
Gentleman
Gentlemen
Gentleness
Gentry
Genuine
Geologist
Geometry
German
Gethsemane
Getting
Ghost
Ghosts
Giant
Giant's
Gift
Gifted
Gifts
Girl
Girls
Giver
Giving
Gladiator
Gladness
Gladsome
Glance
Glances
Glass
Glasses
Glib
Glitter
Glitters
Gloaming
Globe
Gloomy
Glory
Gluttony
Goal
God
God-forsaken
Godlike
God-protected
God's
Gods
Goethe
Goethe's
Going
Gold
Golden
Goldsmith
Good
Good-breeding
Good-fellowship
Good-for-nothing
Goodness
Goods
Good-will
Goose
Gospel
Gospels
Gossip
Gossips
Gothic
Gotten
Govern
Governing
Government
Governments
Governors
Grace
Graceful
Gracefulness
Graces
Grain
Grammar
Grammarians
Grandeur
Granite
Grapes
Grasp
Grasping
Grass
Gratification
Gratitude
Grave
Graves
Gravity
Gray
Great
Great man
Great men
Great souls
Great, the
Great things
Greatest
Greatness
Greece
Greed
Greeks
Green
Greeting
Gregory VII.
Grief
Griefs
Grievances
Grin
Groove
Grose
Grotesques
Grow
Growth
Growths
Grub
Grumbler
Grumblers
Grumbling
Guard
Guesses
Guest
Guests
Guide
Guiding-star
Guilt
Guilty
Guinea
Gullibility
Gunpowder
Habit
Habits
Hades
Haggis
Hair
Hair-splitting
Half
Half-man
Hallow'd
Halves
Hame
Hamlet
Hammer
Hand
Handicraft
Hands
Handsome
Hanging
Hannibal
Happiest
Happiness
Happy
Hard
Hardened
Hard-heartedness
Hardships
Harm
Harmony
Harness
Harper
Haste
Hat
Hate
Hater
Hatred
Haughtiness
Havelock's
Having
Hazard
Head
Headache
Heads
Healing
Health
Healthy
Hear
Hearing
Hearsay
Heart
Hearth
Heart's
Hearts
Heaven
Heavenly
Heaven's
Heavens
Heavenward
Heaviness
Hector
Hegel
Height
Heights
Heir
Helicon
Hell
Hellas
Help
Helper
Helpers
Helpful
Helpfulness
Helps
Henry IV.
Heraldic
Heraldry
Hercules
Here
Hereafter
Heredity
Heresies
Hermits
Hero
Hero-arm
Heroes
Heroic
Heroine
Heroism
Hero-worship
Hid
Hierograms
High
Higher
Highest
Highway
Highways
Hill
Hills
Hindus
Hint
Hip
Historian
Historical
History
Hoard
Hoarding
Hobbes' thesis
Hobby-horses
Holdfast
Hole
Holiness
Holy
Holy Land
Home
Home-life
Homer
Homers
Homes
Honest
Honesty
Honey
Honey-bees
Honour
Honourable
Honours
Hood
Hoof
Hook
Hope
Hopes
Horace
Horace's
Horizon
Horse
Horses
Hospitable
Hospitality
Host
Houndsditch
Hour
Hours
House
Household
Households
House-keeping
House-mother
Houses
How
Human
Humanism
Humanity
Humble
Hume
Humility
Humour
Hunger
Hurry
Hurting
Husband
Husbandman
Husbandry
Huss
Hymen
Hymn-book
Hypocrisy
Hypocrite
Hypocrites
Hypotheses
Hypothesis
Hyssop
Icicle
Idea
Ideal
Idealist
Ideals
Ideas
Idioms
Idiots
Idle
Idleness
Idler
Idlers
Idolater
Idolatry
I
Igdrasil
Ignorance
Ignorant
Iliad
Iliads
Ilium
Ill
Ill-bred
Ill-done
Ill-fortune
Ill-humour
Illiterate
Ill-luck
Ill-mannered
Ill-manners
Ill-natured
Ills
Ill-thought
Ill-tidings
Ill-usage
Illusion
Illusions
Illustrious
Ill-will
Images
Imagination
Imbecility
Imitation
Immaterial
Immortality
Impatience
Imperial
Imperfections
Impious
Importance
Impossibilities
Impossible
Imposture
Impression
Impromptu
Improvement
Improvements
Improvidence
Impudence
Impulse
Impunity
In
Inability
Inaction
Inanimate
Inanity
Incapable
Incapacity
Incense
Incivility
Inclination
Incomprehensible
Incongruous
Inconstancy
Increase
Incredible
Incredulity
Independence
Independent
Index
Indian
Indies
Indifference
Indigence
Indigestion
Indignation
Individual
Individualism
Individuality
Individuals
Indolence
Indolent
Indulgence
Industrious
Industry
Inevitable
Infant
Infant's
Inference
Inferior
Infidelity
Infinite
Infinity
Infirmity
Influence
Influences
Infortune
Ingratitude
Ingle-nook
Inheritance
Inherited
Inhumanity
Iniquity
Injuries
Injuring
Injurious
Injury
Injustice
Inmost
Inner
Innocence
Innocent
Innovations
Inquirers
Inquiries
Inquiry
Inquisitive
Inquisitiveness
Insanity
Inscriptions
Insect
Insensibility
Insight
Insincerity
Insinuations
Insolence
Inspiration
Inspired
Instability
Instant
Instinct
Instincts
Institutions
Instructed
Instruction
Instrument
Instruments
Insult
Insurrection
Insurrections
Integrity
Intellect
Intellectual
Intelligence
Intelligent
Intemperance
Intent
Intention
Intercourse
Interest
Interests
Intimacies
Intolerable
Intolerance
Intolerant
Intoxication
Intrepidity
Introspection
Intrusion
Invent
Invention
Inventions
Inventor
Investigators
Invisible
Iron
Irregularities
Irremediable
Irresolute
Irresolution
Irretrievable
Isolation
Italy
Jack
Jackdaw
Jackdaws
Jargon
Jealous
Jealousy
Jean Paul
Jehovah
Jeer
Jericho
Jest
Jester
Jesting
Jests
Jesuit
Jesus
Jew
Jewels
Jews
Job
Job's
John Bull
Johnny Pigeon's
Joke
Jokes
Joking
Jollity
Journal
Journalist
Jove
Joy
Joyousness
Joys
Judas
Judge
Judges
Judging
Judgment
Judgments
Juggling
Julian
Juliet
Jupiter
Jurists
Jury
Just
Justice
Juvenal
Keats'
Keeping
Kepler's
Kernel
Kettle
Key
Kin
Kind
Kindly
Kindness
Kindnesses
Kindred
King

Kingdom
Kings
Kinship
Kiss
Kissing
Kitchen
Kite
Knave
Knavery
Knaves
Knights
Know
Know thysel
Knowing
Knowledge
Know'st
Knox
Labour
Labourer
Labours
Ladder
Ladders
Ladies
Lady
Ladyism
Lairds
Laissez-faire
Lamb
Lambs
Lame
Lamenting
Land
Landowner
Landscape
Language
Languages
Lapse
Larks
Lasses
Last day
Laugh
Laughing
Laughs
Laughter
Law
Lawful
Lawgiver
Laws
Lawsuit
Lawsuits
Lawyer
Lawyer's
Lawyers
Laziness
Lazy
Leader
Leaf
Leal
Learned
Learner
Learning
Leaven
Legality
Legend
Legislation
Legislator
Leibnitz's
Leisure
Lending
Leniency
Lenity
Leonidas
Leopard
Lesson
Lethe
Letter
Letters
Levellers
Lever
Levers
Levity
Liar
Liars
Libel
Liberal
Liberalism
Liberality
Liberties
Liberty
Libraries
Library
Licence
Licentiousness
Lie
Lies
Life
Life's
Light
Light
Light-minded
Lightning
Lights
Like
Like-minded
Likeness
Liking
Likings
Lilies
Limbs
Limit
Limits
Line
Linen
Link
Linnæus
Linnet's
Lion
Lion's
Lips
Listener
Listening
Literary
Literature
Litigant
Litigation
Little
Littleness
Live
Lived
Livelihood
Lives
Lives
Living
Loan
Lochaber
Lock
Lodge
Loftiest
Logic
Logician
Loneliness
Longevity
Longing
Longwindedness
Look
Looking
Looks
Loquacity
Lord
Lord's
Lordship
Loss
Losses
Lost
Lot
Louis XIV.
Louis XVI.
Lovable
Love
Love's
Love-letter
Loved
Lover
Lover's
Lovers
Lovers'
Loving
Low
Lowest
Lowly
Loyalty
Lucifer
Luck
Lucky
Ludlam's
Luminaries
Lust
Lustre
Lute
Luther
Luxuries
Luxury
Lying
Lyre
Lyrics
Machine
Machinery
Macpherson
Mad
Madam
Madding
Madman
Madmen
Madness
Magdalen
Magistracy
Magistrates
Magnanimity
Mahomet
Maid
Maiden
Maiden's
Maidens
Majesty
Majority
Maladies
Malcontent
Male
Malice
Malignity
Mammon
Man
Man's
Management
Manfulness
Manhood
Manhood's
Mankind
Manliness
Mannerism
Manners
Manual
Manufacture
Manufactures
Many
Maria Theresa's
Mark
Market-place
Marksman
Marriage
Marriages
Married
Marry
Marrying
Martyr
Martyrdom
Martyrdoms
Martyrs
Masses
Master
Master's
Masterhood
Masters
Mastership
Mastery
Material
Mathematics
Mathesis
Matrimony
Matter
Maturity
Maxim
Maxims
Mazes
Me
Mean
Meaning
Meanness
Means
Measures
Meat
Medal
"Meddle not,"
Medea
Mediævalism
Medical
Medicine
Mediocrity
Meekness
Melancholy
Melanchthon's
Melodies
Melody
Member
Memorial
Memorials
Memory
Men

Les ho
Men's
Men-children
Mendacious
Mental
Mephistopheles'
Mephistopheles
Merchandise
Merchant
Mercury
Mercy
Merit
Merriest
Messiah
Messias
Metal
Metamorphoses
Metaphor
Metaphysic
Metaphysics
Method
Microcosm
Microscopes
Middle
Midas
Midnight
Might
Mights
Mighty
Migrate
Mildness
Military
Milk
Mills
Millstone
Milton
Mind
Minds

Minister
Ministers
Ministry
Minnow
Minor
Minorities
Minute
Minuteness
Mirabeau
Miracle
Miracles
Mirror
Mirth
Misanthropist
Mischief
Misconception
Miser
Miserable
Miseries
Misers
Misery
Misfortune
Misfortunes
Misgovernment
Misled
Mismanagement
Mist
Mistake
Mistakes
Mistrust
Misunderstanding
Misunderstood
Mob
Mob-tumults
Mode
Moderation
Modern
Moderns
Modes
Modesty
Mole
Molière
Moment
Moments
Monarch
Monarchies
Monarchs
Monarchy
Money
Money-bag
Moneyed
Moneyless
Money-makers
Monk
Monomania
Monument
Mood
Moods
Moon
Moonlight
Moral
Morality
Morals
More, Sir T.
More's
Morn
Morning
Mortality
Mortals
Moses
Moth
Mother
Mother's
Mother-grace
Mothers
Mother-tongue
Mother-wit
Motive
Motives
Motley
Mountain
Mountains
Mourning
Mouth
Move
Movement
Movements
Multitude
Murder
Muses
Mushrooms
Music
Mus
Must
Mysteries
Mystery
Mystics
Myth
Mythology
Myths
Nae
Nail
Name
Namelessness
Names
Naming
Naples
Napoleon
Napoleon III.
Narrow
Narrowing
Narrowness
Narrow-souled
Nation
National
Nationality
Nations
Native
Natural
Naturalist
Nature
Natures
Navigators
Nay
Near
Nearest
Neatness
Necessary
Necessities
Necessity
Need
Needle
Negation
Negations
Negative
Negatives
Neglect
Negligence
Negro
Neighbour's
Neighbours
Nelson's
Nemesis
Neptune's
Nero
Nerves
Nescience
Nest
Nest-life
Net
Nets
Nettle
Never
New
News
Newspaper
Newspapers
News-writer
New Testament
Newton
Nicknames
Niggard
Night
Nightingale
Nights
Nimbleness
Nimrod
Nineteenth
Nirvana
N

Noah's
Nobility
Noble
Nobleman
Nobleness
Nobles
Nod
Noise
Noises
Nomadism
Non-being
Non-existent
Nonsense
No-progress
Northern
Nose
Noses
Nothing
Novel
Novels
Novelty
Now
Numbers
Nurse
Nursery
Oak
Oak-tree
Oarsmen
Oath
Oaths
Obedience
Obeisance
Obeyed
Obeying
Obeys
Object
Objects
Obligation
Oblivion
Obscure
Obscurity
Obsequiousness
Observation
Observed
Observer
Obsolete
Obstacles
Obstinacy
Obvious
Occasions
Occupation
Occupations
Ocean
Offence
Offences
Offender
Offers
Office
Official
Officious
Offspring
Old
Old age
Oldest
Once
One
One's
Onward
Openness
Opinion
Opinions
Opium
Opportunities
Opportunity
Opposition
Oppression
Optics
Opulence
Oracle
Oracles
Orator
Orators
Oratory
Orb
Ordeal
Order
Orders
Organ
Organisation
Origin
Original
Originality
Origins
Orphaned
Orpheus
Others
Ough
Ounce
Our
Ourselves
Ourselves
Outer
Outward
Outwitted
Over-consideration
Over-curious
Overfeeding
Over-happiness
Overpraise
Ovid
Own
Owner
Ownership
Ox
Oyster
Pactolus
Paganism
Page
Pain
Pains
Painstaking
Painter
Painters
Painting
Pallas
Pantaloon
Paradise
Parasite
Pardon
Pardoning
Parent
Parents
Parliament
Parnassus
Parsimony
Pars magna
Parsons
Part
Particles
Particular
Parties
Parting
Partington, Mrs.
Partisanship
Parts
Party
Passion
Passionless
Passions
Les pass
Past
Pastime
Pastor
Pastors
Pastures
Patch
Paternity
Pates
Path
Pathetic
Pathway
Patience
Patient
Patriot
Patriotism
Patriots
Patron
Patronage
Paul
Paunch
Pay
Pay-day
Peace
Peaceful
Peacemakers
Peaks
Pearls
Peasant
Peasantry
Pebble
Pedagogue
Pedant
Pedantry
Pedigree
Peerage
Pen
Penalty
Penitence
Penny
Penury
People
Peoples
Perception
Perdition
Perfect
Perfection
Perfumed
Perhaps
Perishable
Perjuries
Perjury
Permanence
Perplexity
Persecution
Perseverance
Persistence
Persistency
Person
Personality
Persons
Persuasion
Perversion
Perversities
Pervert
Perverted
Pestilence
Peter
Petition
Petticoat
Phaëton
Phariseeism
Pharmacopœia
Philanthropic
Philanthropy
Philina
Philip II.
Philistinism
Philosopher
Philosopher's
Philosophers
Philosophic
Philosophical
Philosophies
Philosophising
Philosophisings
Philosophism
Philosophy
Phocion
Phœnix
Phœnix-bird
Physic
Physician
Physicians
Physiognomists
Physique
Picture
Pictures
Piece
Piety
Pig
Pigeons
Pilate
Pilgrimages
Pilgrims
Pillow
Pills
Pilot
Pilotage
Pilots
Pindar
Pious
Pipe
Pity
Pitying
Place
Places
Plagiarism
Plagiarists
Plain
Plain-dealing
Plain-spokenness
Plan
Planet
Plant
Plate
Plato
Plato's
Plausibility
Player
Playfulness
Playing
Pleasant
Pleasantry
Please
Pleasing
Pleasure
Pleasure-seeker
Pleasures
Plenty
Pliability
Plodders
Plodding
Ploughman's
Ploughshare
Poem
Poems
Poesy
Poet
Poet's
Poetasters
Poetic
Poet-priest
Poetry
Poets

Poison
Polarity
Policy
Polish
Polite
Politeness
Political
Politician
Politicians
Politics
Polonius
Pomp
Poniards
Poor
Poorest
Pope
Pope's
Populace
Popular
Popularity
Portion
Portraits
Position
Positive
Possess
Possessing
Possession
Possessions
Possible
Post
Posterity
Posture-maker
Pot
Poultry
Poverty
Power
Powerful
Powers
Practice
Prairies
Praise
Praising
Prayer
M
Prayerless
Prayers
Praying
Preacher
Preaching
Precedent
Precedents
Precept
Precepts
Precipitancy
Precipitation
Precocity
Predecessor
Predestination
Preferment
Prejudice
Prejudices
Presbyter
Presence
Present
Presents
Press
Presumption
Pretensions
Prevention
Price
Pride
Priest
Priestcraft
Priesthood
Priests
Prime Minister
Primrose
Prince
Princes
Princes
Principle
Principles
Printing-press
Prisoner
Private
Privilege
Probabilities
Problem
Problems
Procrastination
Prodigal
Prodigals
Production
Profane
Profanity
Profession
Professions
Professors
Profit
Profitable
Profits
Profundity
Progress
Prohibition
Projecting
Prometheus
Prometheus Vinctus
Promise
Promised Land
Promises
Promising
Propensities
Propensity
Proper
Property
Prophecies
Prophecy
Prophet
Prophets
Propriety
Prose
Proselytes
Proselytising
Prosperity
Protestantism
Protestation
Protesting
Proud
Proudhon's
Proverb
Proverbial
Proverbs
Providence
Prudence
Prudent
Psyche's
Public
Pudding
Pulpit
Punctuality
Punishment
Punsters
Pupil
Purchase
Pure
Pureness
Purgation
Puritans
Purity
Purpose
Purposes
Purse
Purses
Pursuit
Pushing
Pyramid
Pyramids
Pyrenees
Quack
Qualities
Quarrel
Quarrelling
Quarrels
Question
Questioning
Questionings
Questions
Quickness
Quotation
Quotations
Rabble
Rabelais'
Race
Races
Rage
Rags
Railway
Rain
Rainbow
Rainy
Rake
Rank
Raphael
Rare
Rascal
Rascals
Rash
Rashness
Rational
Raven
Read
Read
Reader
Readers
Reading
Real
Realities
Reality
Reaping
Reason
Reasonable
Reasoner
Reasoning
Reasons
Rebellion
Rebels
Reckoning
Reckonings
Recollection
Recompense
Reconciliation
Recreation
Redress
Refined
Refinement
Reflection
Reform
Reformation
Reformers
Reforming
Reforms
Refusal
Refusing
Regard
Regeneration
Regimenting
Regret
Reign
Rejected
Relations
Relationships
Relatives
Religion
Religions
Religious
Religiousness
Relish
Remedies
Remedy
Remembrance
Reminding
Remorse
Removals
Renounce
Rent
Renunciation
Repentance
Repetition
Reports
Repose
Reproach
Reproaches
Reproof
Republic
Republics
Reputation
Resentment
Resentments
Reserve
Resetter
Resignation
Resistance
Resisted
Resolution
Resolutions
Resolve
Respect
Respectability
Responsibility
Respectable
Rest
Restlessness
Restraint
Results
Resurrection
Reticence
Retirement
Retribution
Retrogression
Retrospect
Revelation
Revelations
Revenge
Reverence
Reverie
Revolt
Revolution
Revolutions
Rewarding
Rhetoric
Rhyme
Rhythm
Rich
Richard's
Richelieu
Riches
Richest
Rider
Ridicule
Ridiculous
Right
Right-about-face
Right-doing
Righteous
Righteousness
Righting
Rights
Rigour
Ring
Rings
Ripe
Ripeness
Rising
Risk
Rivalry
River
River-courses
Rivers
Road
Robb'd
Robert
Rocks
Rod
Rogue
Rogues
Roman
Romance
Romances
Romans
Romantic
Rome
Rooks
Room
Root
Rose
Rosebuds
Roses
Roughness
Rousseau
Rousseau's
Routine
Roving
Rude
Rudder
Ruin
Ruins
Rule
Ruler
Rulers
Ruling
Rumour
Running
Ruskin
Rust
Rutland
Sabbath
Sack
Sackcloth
Sacrament
Sacrifice
Sacrifices
Sad
Saddest
Sadness
Safety
Sagacious
Sage
Sages
Sailing
Sailor
Saint
Sainthood
Saints
Salvation
Samaritan
Same
Samson's
Sanctity
Sanctuary
Sand
Sanity
Saracens
Sarcasm
Sartor Resartu
Satan
Satiety
Satire
Satires
Satirical
Satisfaction
Satisfied
Sauce
Savage
Saved
Saving
Saviour
Savoir-vivr
Say
Saying
Sayings
Scaffold
Scandal
Scandals
Scapegoat
Scattering
Scenes
Scepticism
Sceptre
Schemes
Schiller
Schiller's
Schisms
Scholar
Scholars
School
Schoolboy
Schooling
Schoolmasters
Science
Sciences
Scipio
Scoffer
Scolding
Scorning
Scotch
Scotchman
Scoundrel
Scoundrelism
Scoundrels
Scribbling
Scripture
Scruples
Scylla
Sea
Searchable
Searching
Season
Secrecy
Secret
Secrets
Sectarian
Sectary
Sects
Security
Seducer
See
Seed
Seed-corn
Seed-field
Seeing
Seeking
Seemly
Seen
Seer
Seers
Selection
Self
Self-abasement
Self-assertion
Self-censure
Self-commendation
Self-conceit
Self-concentration
Self-confidence
Self-confident
Self-conquest
Self-control
Self-culture
Self-deception
Self-denial
Self-dependence
Self-endeavour
Self-esteem
Self-forgetfulness
Self-help
Self-helping
Self-knowledge
Self-love
Self-lovers
Self-made
Self-maintenance
Self-neglecting
Self-praise
Self-reformation
Self-regard
Self-reliance
Self-respect
Self-restraint
Self-reverence
Self-satisfied
Self-subdual
Self-sufficiency
Self-taught
Self-trust
Self-will
Selfish
Selfishness
Selling
Semblance
Sense
Senses
Sensibilities
Sensibility
Sensible
Sensual
Sensualist
Sensuality
Sentence
Sentences
Sentiment
Sentimental
Sentimentalism
Sentimentalist
Sentiments
Separation
Sequence
Serenity
Serfdom
Serious
Seriousness
Sermon
Sermons
Serpent
Serpent's
Servant
Servants
Serve
Served
Service
Serving
Servitude
Set
Settlements
Seventeenth
Severity
Sex
Shackles
Shade
Shadow
Shadows
Shakespeare
Shakespeare's
Shal
Shal
Shalt, tho
Shame
Sharpness
Shekinah
Shell
Shelter
Shepherd
Shepherds
Sheridan
Sheridan's
Shiftlessness
Shine
Ship
Shoe
Shoes
Shooting
Shop
Short-cuts
Shortcomings
Shot
Shoul
Showy
Shrew
Shrewdness
Shyness
Sibyl
Sick
Sickness
Sighing
Sighs
Sight
Significant
Silence
Silent
Siller
Silver
Similes
Simple
Simpleton
Simplicity
Sin
Sincerity
Sing
Singer
Singers
Singing
Singularity
Sinned
Sinner
Sinners
Sinning
Sins
Situation
Sixpence
Skeleton
Skies
Skill
Skin
Sky
Slackness
Slain
Slander
Slave
Slave-driving
Slave-holding
Slaves
Slavery
Sleep
Sleepers
Sleeping
Slippery
Sloth
Slothful
Sluggard
Sluggishness
Slugs
Small
Smallest
Smile
Smiles
Smiling
Smith
Smoke
Snail
Sneer
Snob
Snow
Soaring
Sobriety
Sociability
Social
Socialism
Sociality
Societies
Society
Socrates
Soil
Soldier
Soldier's
Soldiers
Solidarity
Solitude
Solomon
Something
Son
Song
Songs
Sophistry
Sophists
Sorrow
Sorrow's
Sorrows
Soul
Soul's
Souls

Sovereigns
Sovereignty
Sowing
Space
Spared
Sparing
Spark
Sparks
Sparrow
Spartan
Spartans
Speak
Speaker
Speaking
Spécialité
Species
Speck
Spectacles
Speculation
Speculations
Speech
Speeches
Spenser
Spending
Spendthrift
Sphere
Sphinx-riddle
Spinoza
Spirit
Spirits
Spiritual
Spiritually-minded
Spirit-world
Splendour unseen
Spontaneity
Sport
Spring
Spur
St. Christopher and Christ
St. Francis
St. Martin
St. Paul's
Stage
Stagnation
Stags with lion for leader
Standing
Stanzas
Star
Stars
Start
State
States
Statesman
Statesmanship
Statesmen
Station
Stations of eminence
Statue
Steal, thou shalt no
Stealing
Steel
Step
Stepping-stones
Stewards
Still
Stoic
Stoicism
Stomach
Stone
Stones
Stoning
Stoop
Stores
Stories
Storm
Story-telling
Straightforward
Straightforwardness
Strain
Stranded
Strange
Straws
Stream
Streams
Strength
Strife
Stringed
Striving
Stroke
Strokes
Strong
Stronger
Strongest
Stubbornness
Student
Students
Studies
Study
Stuff
Stumbling-block
Stupid
Stupidity
Style
Subject
Subjects
Sublime
Sublimest
Sublimity
Subordinates
Subsistence
Substance
Substitute
Succeeding
Success
Successes
Succour
Suddenness
Suffer
Sufferance
Sufferer
Suffering
Sufferings
Sufficiency
Suffrage
Sullenness
Summit
Summons
Sun
Sunbeam
Sunlight
Sun-setting
Suns
Sunshine
Superfluities
Superfluous
Superior
Superiority
Supernatural
Superstition
Supper
Suppliants
Surfeit
Surgeon
Suspicion
Suspiciou
Swallow
Swallow-flights
Swan of Avon
Swearer
Swedenborg
Sweet
Sweetness
Swift's
Sword
Swordsman
Sworn
Sybarite
Symbol
Symbolic
Symbols
Sympathy
Systems
Taciturnity
Tact
Taking
Tale
Tale-bearer
Talent
Talents
Talisman
Talk
Talkers
Talking
Tall
Tardiness
Tarpeian
Task
Taskmaster
Taste
Tastes
Tattler
Taxation
Taxes
Teach
Teachable
Teacher
Teachers
Teaching
Tear
Tears
Teeth
Telegraph
Teleology
Telescope
Telescopes
Tell-tale
Temper
Temperaments
Temperance
Tempers
Tempest
Temple
Temptation
Temptations
Tenants
Tendency
Tenderness
Tennyson
Term
Territory
Terror
Terrors
Testament
Testimony
Teufelsdröckh
Thanks
Thanksgiving
Theatre
Theft
Theme
Theologian
Theologians
Theological
Theology
Theorists
Theory
There
Thief
Thieves
Thing
Things
Think
Thinker
Thinkers
Thinking
Thirty
Thomson
Thongs
Thorn
Thorns
Thought
Thoughtfulness
Thoughtlessness
Thoughts
Gre
Men
Thraldom
Thrall
Threateners
Threatening
Threats
Threshold
Thrift
Thriving
Throne
Thunder
Thunderbolts
Thyrsus
Tibullus
Tide
Time
Il T
Times
Time-shadows
Timid
Timing
Tiresome
Tit for tat
Title-page
Titles
Titus
Toady
To-day
Toe
Toil
Toiler
Toleration
Tomb
To-morrow
Tongue
Tongues
Too
Tools
Top
Topic
Torrents
Touch
Towers
Town
Towns
Trade, a
Trader
Tradition
Tragedies
Tragedy
Tragic
Train
Training
Traitor
Traitor's, a
Traitors
Traits
Tranquillity
Transcendental
Transcendentalism
Transition
Transitory
Translation
Translators
Trappist
Traveller
Travellers
Travelling
Treachery
Treasure, a
Treasures
Treatment
Tree
Trees
Trencherman
Trial, a
Trials
Trifles
Trinity
Triumph
Triumphs
Tropes
Trouble
Troubles
Troy
True
Trust
Trusting
Truth
False
Truth-doer
Truthfulness
Truth-seeker
Truths
Tub
Tumult
Tumults
Turner
Twa
Twigs
Twilight
Two
Type
Tyranny
Tyrant
Tyrants
Ugliness
Ulysses
Unanimity
Unascertainable
Unbaptized
Unbelief
Unborn
Uncertain
Uncle Toby
Unconquerable
Unconscious
Unconsciousness
Unction
Understanding
Undertaking
Undertakings
Undiscovered
Uneasiness
Unemployed
Unexpected
Unfortunate
Ungrateful
Unhappiness
Unhappy
Unhelpful
Unimaginative
Uninquisitiveness
Unintelligible
Union
Unity
Universe
University
Unjust
Unkindness
Unlearn
Unlearned
Unlearning
Unlooked-for
Unnatural
Unnecessary
Unprosperous
Unpunctuality
Unreality
Unseen
Unsettling
Unsophisticated
Unsought
Unthinking
Untruth
Unused
Up
Upholstery
Upright
Uprightness
Urn
Use
Useful
Usefulness
Useless
Usurer
Utmost
Utopia
Utopias
Uttered
Vagabonds
Vain
Vainglory
Vale
Valetudinarians
Valiant
Valour
Valours
Value
Vanity
Vanquished
Vapour
Variety
Vase
Veil
Veils
Venerate
Veneration
Vengeance
Venturing
Venus
Veracity
Verse
Verses
Vesture
Vexations
Vice
Vices
Vicissitude
Victory
Victuals
Vigilance
Vile
Villains
Villainy
Vine
Vinegar
Violence
Violent
Violin
Virgil's
Virtue
Virtues
Virtuous
Visible
Vision
Visionaries
Visions
Vitality
Vocation
Voice
Void
Voltaire
Volubility
Volume
Vote
Votes
Voting
Vow
Vows
Vox populi, vox dei
Vulgar
Vulgarity
Vulnerable
Wages
Waggons
Wailing
Waiting
Walking
Wallets
Wanderers
Wandering
Want
Wants
War
Ware
Warfare
Warlike
Warmth
Warning
Warnings
Warrior
Warriors
Wars
Waste
Waster
Watching
Water
Waters
Wattle
Wave
Waves
Way
Ways
Wayside
Weak
Weakest
Weaklings
Weakness
Weaknesses
Weal
Wealth
Weapon
Weapons
Wearing
Weary
Weathercock
Weathers
Web
Wedded
Wedge
Wedlock
Weeds
Weep
Weeping
Weights
Weighty
Welfare
Well
Well
Well-being
Well-considered
Well-doing
Well-done
Well-read
Well-springs
Wellington
Wheat
Wheel
Wheels
When
Whence
Where
Wherefore
Whetstone
Whim
Whimpering
Whining
Whips
Whirligig
Whisky
Whisperings
Whist
Whistled
Whole
Wholeness
Wholesome
Wicked
Wickedness
Widows
Wife
Wilderness
Wiles
Will
Will d
Willing
Willingness
Willow
Wills
Wind
Windbags
Windows
Winds
Wine

Wine-cup
Wings
Winking
Winter
Wisdom
Wisdom's
Wise
Wisely
Wisest
Wish
Wishes
Wishing
Wishing-gate
Wit
Wit's
Witch
Within
Without
Wits
Witticism
Witty
Wives
Woe
Woes
Wolf
Wolsey
Woman

Mu
Woman's
Womanhood
Women
Women's
Won
Wonder
Wonderful
Wonders
Wood
Woods
Wooed
Wooing
Wool
Word
Words


Wordsworth
Work
Worker
Workers
Working
Working-day
Workman
Workmen
Works
World
World's
World-epoch
World-revolutions
World-spirit
World-traveller
Worldly
Worlds
Worm
Worries
Worry
Worse
Worship
Worst
Worth
Worthless
Worthy
Would
Woul
Wound
Wrath
Wreath
Wreck
Wren
Wren's
Wrestling
Wretch
Wretched
Wretchedness
Write
Writer
Writers
Writing
Writings
Written
Wrong
Wrongs
Wrong-doer
Wrong-doing
Yea
Years
Ye
Yesterday
Yielding
Yoke
Young
Younger
Youth
Youthful
Zeal
Zeus
